Nepal Telecommunication Company Limited ,
Financial Regulations – 2061
Under the Companies Act 2053, Nepal Telecommunication Company Limited has made the following regulations by using the authority given by Section 4 of the Company's Regulations and Clause (25) of Section 4(g) of the Articles of Association.
Paragraph-1
initial
1. 	Abbreviation and initials:
	( a) 	The name of these Regulations shall be “ Nepal Telecommunication Company Ltd. , Financial Regulations , 2061 ” being is . 
	( b) 	This regulation will come into force from 15th November 2061 Bikram Samvat.
❖ 2. 	Definition : ❖
In this regulation, if the subject or context does not indicate otherwise:
	( a) 	“ Act ” That is to say Company Act , 2063 should be remembered.
	( b) 	“ Company ” That is to say Act under formed Nepal Telecommunication Company Limited to remember should and so with words Central It also refers to office , directorate , department , office and accounting office.
	( c) 	“ Committee ” That is to say Nepal Telecommunication Company of Limited Director Committee to remember should _	
	( d) “ Chairman ” That is to say of the committee Chairman to remember should and so with words of the committee of the meeting Chairmanship to do Member even to refers to . 
	( e) 	“ Member ” That is to say of the committee Member to remember should .
	( f) 	“ Article director " That is to say of the company the article Director to remember should and so with words Also refers to the chief executive officer or managing director who works as the executive head of the company .
	( g) 	“ Departmental head " That is to say the article Director , deputy managing director , director and head of office at the tenth level and above should be considered.
	( h ) 	“ Office ” That is to say of the company Central office and so under are Separately Existence having been Project or Separately administrative area of work assigned units to remember should . 
	( j) 	“ Office head " That is to say of the company Central of the office In case the article Director , in the case of a directorate, director , in the case of a separate project, the project head, and in the case of other offices, the employee who works as the head of that office.
	( j) 	“ Accounting office " That is to say Central office or From the directorate exit received done income expenses of both account rakhi It should be considered an office that has the obligation to submit a report to the taluk office along with trial balance and other financial details .
	( k) 	“ Sealing bill of lading " That is to say of the company Notice according to any Construction work to do or goods or other service available It means the details submitted by the interested person , firm, company or organization with the price mentioned inside the sealed envelope.
	( l) 	“ purchase ” That is to say The company this Regulations according to any It means receiving goods , consulting services or other services or doing or having any construction work done.
	( d) 	“ Purchase deal " That is to say Company and Supplier or Construction businessman or Consultant or service provider the middle this Regulations according to having been Purchase related to Agreement to remember should .
	( Dh) 	“ Others service " That is to say riding Renting , transporting or maintaining equipment , equipment or goods shall be understood as the services necessary for the operation of the office, such as security , letter carrying , photocopying , chimney sweep , cleaning , garden maintenance , renting and repairing vehicles , buses and equipment. It also refers to locally obtained services , including advertising services and other administrative services.
	( h) 	“ Economic year " That is to say July 1 on since another one of the year June until mid period refers to . 
	( T) 	“ Bail amount ” That is to say sure of condition in authority remained Protection for kept Protection Retention money or earnest money or bid bond or performance bond for the same should be understood and the word also refers to the amount kept for that purpose which has to be kept as security for any other reason.
	( h) 	“ Deposit ” That is to say Company by himself to do any Construction , repair and connection work should be mentioned.
	( The) 	“ Special situation " That is to say Natural or divine calamities such as drought , lack of rain , heavy rain , earthquake, flood , landslide , fire, and sudden or unexpected special reasons should be considered and the word also refers to situations like war or internal conflict.
	( d) 	“ joint Undertaking ( Joint venture ) ” That is to say Two or than two more Company or Firms mili combined or Separately Obligation including any work to do combined enterprise related to to the action refers to . 
	( n) 	“ goods ” That is to say come on or immovable whatever kind of thing It should be remembered that the word also refers to ancillary (supporting) services and software for supplying such goods .
	( P) 	“ Rights received officer " That is to say this Regulations or this under continued order and Directory according to Purchase related to work Accepted to do right received An officer should be remembered.
	( f) 	“ Construction action " That is to say any structure or any of the matter Construction Works related to doing , rebuilding , demolishing , maintaining or renovating the construction site , digging , erecting , connecting equipment or materials , decorating, etc. should be understood and the term includes making maps , laboratory tests , satellite photographs . Incidental to construction work such as drawing , seismic testing
( assistant) service.
	( b) 	“ Consultation service " That is to say any It means study , research , survey , design , drawing , supervision , training , testing , software development or other intellectual or professional services of a similar nature.
	( b) 	“ Bid ” That is to say The company of purchase for publication done Notice according to assigned in the frame By the bidder submission done price to open Documents , proposals or rates should be mentioned.
	( i) 	“ Bid related to document " That is to say By the bidder price or proposal or rate full of or ready done submission to do for Bid challenge to do related to by the office ready done document to remember should and so with words to the bidder given Refers to instructions , specifications , maps , designs , terms of reference , work schedules , evaluation bases , quantity lists , contract terms and other similar documents.
	( j) 	“ surety ”; That is to say any work finished until Protection for kept Protection Deposit amount (retention money or earnest money) should be referred to and that term also refers to the amount kept for bid security or performance security or any other reason.
	( and) 	“ Agent ” That is to say any indigenous or the foreigner A person , firm or company should be considered as a person , firm or company taking agency .
	( L) 	“ Kabol Digit ( bid price ) ” That is to say any By the bidder in the tender confess done amount to remember should . 
	( v) 	“ assessed points ( evaluated price ) ” That is to say any of the tender Test and From the assessment maintained to be came The total score of the price should be remembered.
	( c) 	“ Agreement price ( contract price ) ” That is to say Purchase In agreement mentioned Purchase price to remember should and so with words like that Agreement under variation order continued done like that order according to having been work measurement check while maintained having been price and price If there is an adjustment , it also refers to the purchase price that has been fixed by such adjustment.
3. 	Explanation of Regulations:
	If any question arises regarding the interpretation of these regulations and the orders issued under these regulations, the interpretation made by the committee will be final for the company's operations.
 
Paragraph-2
Annual program and budget
4. 	Annual Program and Budget:
( 1) Taking into account 	the development in telecommunication technology , changes in government policy rules and market competition, the company should formulate a long-term plan by considering how to advance the company in the next ten years. The plan should be reviewed every five years.
( 2) 	A short-term plan and an annual program of how much work is to be done every year with the aim of completing the plan as per sub-regulation (1) should be prepared.
( 3) 	Within three months before the beginning of the financial year, the offices shall prepare and submit to the central office the annual program of each office and the budget statement of estimated income and expenditure . The managing director shall make necessary modifications to the program and budget submitted by the subordinate office and submit the company's annual program and estimated income and expenditure budget to the committee for approval before the beginning of the financial year.
( 4) 	In the event that the income and expenditure budget is submitted to the committee and the budget is under consideration, the committee may approve the submitted budget based on the budget submitted for the company's daily operations and essential work so that it does not exceed 25 percent of the annual total expenses of the previous year.
( 5) 	The Managing Director will have all the authority to operate the approved budget within the scope of this regulation.
( 6) 	If, due to special reasons, the approved budget is not enough to carry out the scheduled program, additional budget can be arranged as approved by the committee by submitting it to the committee along with the reason.
5. 	Money changer:
	In the different titles of the approved budget, the managing director can transfer up to 25 percent of the approved budget of the same title except salary and allowances from one title to another title, and if he needs to transfer more than that, he can transfer the amount with the approval of the committee .
		However , if there is a transfer of money from the amount allocated for capital expenditure to revenue expenditure or from the amount allocated for income expenditure to capital expenditure, the approval of the committee must be obtained.
6. 	Income and Bonds:
( 1) 	Any income of the company shall be deposited in the fund account of the company.
( 2) 	The income or guarantee received by the company for providing any service or from other sources should generally be deposited in the bank on the same day. If for some reason it is not possible to register on the same day, it is compulsory to register on the next day. If there is a bank holiday on the day when the company's office is in operation, the filing must be made on the day the bank opens after the holiday.
( 3) 	The office related to the bond amount received from any customer of the company and for various purposes from time to time shall file it in the bond account and keep the account in such a way that its clear details are disclosed.
 
7. 	Account Operation:
( 1) 	The entire funds of the company's central office and other offices shall be kept in the name of the company in Nepal Rastra Bank or licensed commercial banks or other banks approved by the committee to carry out banking transactions.
( 2) 	The operation of the fund account of the company shall be through the joint signature of the Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director (Finance). The operation of the company's other operating level accounts and guarantee accounts shall be done by the joint signature of the head of office or the officer designated by him and the head of accounts.
★ ( 3) 	The income amount accumulated in the fund account of offices other than the central office will be kept as a minimum balance and the remaining amount will be transferred to the fund account of the central level every month.
( 4) 	If the balance of the surety is more than the specified limit, the office shall deposit the excess amount in the relevant account of the central office.
8 . 	Petty Cash Fund ★
	Generally, for small daily expenses, a small cash fund can be kept in the central office, Rs. 50,000.- , in directorates and departmental level offices, Rs. 25 , 000.-, and in accounting offices , a small cash fund can be kept without increasing it to Rs.10 , 000.-.
9. 	Income Expenditure Procedure
( 1) It will be the responsibility of the 	head of the office to keep the statement of income and expenditure taken over by Mr.
( 2) 	The amount received in the office shall be kept in the bank designated by the company under the responsibility of the head of the office or the officer designated by him and the head of accounts in a joint signature manner.
( 3) 	When the authorized officer spends the approved budget for a work, he shall check whether the budget amount is available for that purpose , whether the said work is in accordance with the regulations , and before making the payment, he shall have to check whether it has been met or not. He has to sign and verify the receipt of the amount spent , the bills of exchange.
( 4) Except for 	salaries , allowances , taxes , fees, unapproved expenses or exceeding the approved amount shall not be made to be spent. In the event that the prescribed procedure cannot be carried out for the benefit of the company, if it is necessary to spend immediately, the head of the office can order the expenditure by giving prior information to the relevant officer so that support will be provided later . But approval or support should be taken within one month after submitting the details of such expenses.
( 5) The head of the office should 	supervise the employees under him during financial transactions and make proper arrangements to keep the company's cash or goods safe so that there is no misappropriation , loss or negligence of cash or goods. If the work he has to do is done by the employees under him, his boss will also be responsible.
( 6) 	Final audit of all cash and goods , property and other transactions of the company should be done every year within the prescribed time. Prior to the final audit, the internal audit of the office and its sub-offices should be conducted and a record of the discrepancies found in the internal and final audit should be kept. The head of the relevant office and the head of accounts will be responsible for clearing or regularizing the debts established in this way.
( 7) 	The head of the office should prepare daily and monthly statements of the income and expenditure received in the office from service operations and other sources and keep accounts in a clear manner.
( 8) 	Notwithstanding anything written elsewhere in these regulations, the head of the office shall consult with the head of accounts when conducting financial transactions.
( 9) 	If there is a disagreement between the head of the relevant office and the head of accounting while conducting financial transactions, it shall be done according to the decision of the head of the office. The Head of Accounts shall immediately send the information of such decision to the Deputy Managing Director (Finance).
( 10) In addition 	to the work and duties written elsewhere in these regulations to be performed by the Chief Accountant, the work and duties of the Chief Accountant shall be as follows:
( a) 	Carrying out the tasks and responsibilities related to the financial transactions assigned by the head of the office and arranging the withdrawal request according to this regulation.
( b) 	To keep the accounting book of the disbursed amount in a proper manner and to prepare the financial statement and financial statement of the expenditure in a timely manner.
( c) 	Timely accounting of the income and payments to be received and received by the company and keeping the accounts up-to-date.
( d) 	Accounting of goods and fixed assets and including them in the financial statement.
( e) 	To keep a record of the errors that have been established through the audit and to cause the errors to be removed.
( f) 	Conduct internal audit on time and arrange for preparation of necessary details for final audit within two months of the end of the financial year.
( g) 	When conducting financial transactions, to give an opinion on whether the procedure according to this regulation has been followed or not, and if the procedure is not followed, to submit a clear written opinion to the head of the office.
( h) 	If the amount under the relevant title is insufficient and if it is seen that if the amount is not spent, the company will suffer losses or the work will be hindered, if there is a clear reason for it, it should be spent from the other balance of the allocated amount, then the head of the account shall take the order of the head of the office and spend it accordingly. To regularize the amount spent within seven days before the taluk office for approval.
( i) 	Collecting the details necessary to prepare the budget for the next financial year and submitting the estimated budget statement to the Taluk Office or the Central Office within the month of May every year.
( J) 	To collect employee advances regularly and make embezzlement.
( k) 	Check whether the customers of the company have paid the fee within the stipulated time for using the service, and if they have not paid, give a notice to stop the service and make them collect.
( l) 	To check and control whether the accounts of the cash received by the company are correct and whether the collected amount is deposited in the bank on time or not.
❖ ( 11) 	The committee will prepare and implement the procedures including the following topics regarding the source identification , operation and control system of the income of the services sold and distributed by the company . ❖
( a) 	Regarding billing of all services provided by the company.
( b) 	In relation to the recovery of the amount due from the customers.
( c) 	Accounting of the cash balance received by the company on collection , in relation to regular bank filing.
( d) 	In relation to transparent and simplifying the company's services sale , fund collection.
( e) 	Regarding making the tariffs of various telecommunication services provided by the company timely and competitive.
( f) 	Regarding the inter-administrative policy regarding income sharing with other service providers.
( G) 	In relation to making the riyakat dyabhalbhasht blabthikash of the Khbgiv Bmambam Kvchakhashabhak.
( h) Regarding 	income and employee management , possible income leakage control and internal control system.
( i) 	Regarding keeping updated records of income accounts and submitting reports.
10. 	Submission:
	Submissions may be made in the following cases without exceeding the cost incurred:
( 1) 	To purchase necessary goods.
( 2) 	To send to the place of transfer.
( 3) 	To send for work or visit or training.
( 4) 	To do construction or connection work.
( 5) 	To give advance payment according to the agreement regarding purchase or construction or connection of goods.
11. 	Peshki Fachhraut:
	The advance payment should be made as follows:
( 1) 	The consignment note taken for the purchase of goods shall be submitted within 7 days of the purchase of the goods and within one month of receipt of the goods in the case of purchase by receipt, and thus the consignment shall be filed in the warehouse within 7 days of the receipt of the consignment note and the consignment shall be cleared in accordance with this regulation.
( 2) 	The submission received by the employee who is transferred or going on a tour shall be submitted to the relevant office within 15 days of the transfer or returning from the tour to the relevant office and within 7 days of submission of the submission, the said office shall process the submission as per the rules. .
( 3) 	Once an offer is not valid, another offer cannot be given unless there are special circumstances.
( 4) 	If the advance taken for a purpose is not spent for that purpose, the advance must be returned within 7 days of taking the advance.
( 5) 	Candidates who have taken part in the training , seminar and symposium must submit the application form within 15 days after the completion of the training , seminar and symposium.
( 6) 	In case of failure to pay the required amount and the remaining amount within the specified period, the salary and allowance received by the concerned employee will be deducted from any amount, with or without advance notice.
 
Paragraph – 3
, custody , protection and disposal of the company's property
12. 	Custody of the company's property , its cost and protection:
( 1) 	Cash , bank balances and checks in the office and their contents will be the responsibility of the relevant head of accounts. The goods in the warehouse and the relevant records will be in the charge of the warehouse chief. The income statement and other documents related to it will be in charge of the staff of the accounting office designated by the head of the office .
( 2) 	According to sub-regulation (1), the head of the office concerned shall have the duty to ensure that the assets under his/her custody are not embezzled, along with the related expenses.
★ ( 3) 	Employees involved in the connection work must submit the connection report to the relevant office within 30 days of the completion of the connection, and the detailed description of the connected assets with the open connection report should be kept in the relevant office, regional directorate and central office . Its protection and responsibility will be the staff designated by the head of the office. ★
13. 	Receipt , withdrawal , transfer and final balance valuation of goods:
( 1) 	Any goods purchased and received by the company from other sources shall be filed in the warehouse and the head of the office shall be entrusted to the head of the warehouse.
( 2) 	The head of the office and the head of the warehouse shall be responsible for protecting the goods of the company so that they are not damaged and for taking good care of them or keeping them in working condition .
( 3) 	According to the order of the head of the office, the income and expenditure of goods will be done. The Bhandare (warehouse chief) will be responsible for preparing the inventory of receipt and export of goods , keeping such inventory up-to-date and keeping it safe.
( 4) 	In the case of goods used in technical work, when preparing the invoice according to sub-regulation (3), the expert of the concerned office shall check and verify the condition in which such goods have been received, and the invoice shall be prepared to certify the same.
( 5) 	The pattern of keeping records of receipt and export of various goods shall be as prescribed by the company.
( 6) 	It will be the responsibility of the relevant head of accounts and the head of warehouse to compare and update the cost of receipt and export of goods kept by the warehouse branch and the cost of goods kept by the accounting branch on a quarterly basis.
( 7) 	Transfer form should be used when sending goods from one office to another office. In this way, when sending goods from one office to another office, the price of the goods to be sent should also be shown in the transfer form. The warehouse manager of the sending office will be responsible for receiving the check filing report and keeping the branch accounts correct if the goods transferred and sent by Apu m have not been received by the relevant office. In this way, the receiving office will be responsible for sending the filing report to the relevant office within 7 days of receiving the goods.
( 8) 	While exporting the goods, the cost will be calculated on the basis of first receipt, first withdrawal, and the remaining balance will be maintained on the same basis.
( 9) 	When purchasing maintenance and other office supplies, the goods worth up to one hundred rupees per unit shall be physically recorded and expensed at the time of purchase and per unit Rs. When exporting capital goods up to 5000, a record of receipt will be kept and the expenses will be reported directly.
( 10) 	A loan register (loan register) of the exported capital goods shall be kept and recorded. In this way, the responsibility of returning the goods to the warehouse after the work is completed will be the responsibility of the employee to whom the goods are handed over. In the event that the seized goods cannot be returned due to the fact that the work has not been completed even by the end of the financial year, the seized account should be updated by showing the team assigned for physical examination at the end of the financial year. Thus, in the case of physical examination, if the seized goods are not returned or if the seized account is not updated, the cost of the said goods will be deducted from the salary for surrendering the goods and recovered from any other amount.
14. 	Inspection and description of stock of goods:
( 1) 	At the end of each financial year, the head of the office himself or by other staff should arrange for a physical examination to be done by other staff other than the staff in charge of such goods, and a written report should be written or taken. One copy of such report should be sent to the concerned regional directorate and managing director and one copy should be kept in the relevant file under the charge of the store manager.
( 2) 	In the report according to sub-regulation (1), the physical balance of the goods , the balance shown in the account and the reason for any difference, if any, should clearly disclose the following things:-
( a) 	The protection and handling of goods has been done well , no ?
( b) 	How many goods are in need of repair ?
( c) 	How many goods will have to be auctioned ?
( d) 	Whether the goods were damaged or not and if so, whose negligence or fault was it ?
( e) 	If there are goods that are not linked to income in the GST book, how much and in what condition are they ? and
( f) 	Comparative statement of the quantity used last year and the quantity purchased in the current financial year of the same type of goods.
( 3) 	As mentioned in sub-regulations (1) and (2), if there is a need to make any calculations regarding the condition of the inspection or physical examination, it must be submitted to the authorized officer and the authorized officer must also give instructions as soon as possible.
( 4) 	Any goods that need to be sold by auction or washed should be regularly auctioned or washed.
( 5) 	Departmental action can be taken against ordering the company to buy more than the required goods without consuming them.
15. 	Barbujarath do:
	Any employee of the company has to submit all the cash , goods , and documents that he has to submit within the deadline and those who have to pay should also receive it within the deadline.
16. 	In case of loss or damage to the property of the company without any reason:
( 1) 	It shall be the duty of the employee who is in charge of cash , goods , expenses , Shresta , file documents, etc. to leave the office due to transfer , promotion , leave or any other reason or when he is separated from the job. The employee who receives the notice should also be notified immediately. If he hesitates to explain or does not understand, such an employee will be subject to departmental punishment.
( 2) 	According to sub-regulation (1), the employee who has the duty to perform the duty shall perform the duty as follows.
( a) 	Employees of any level who have the duty to resign, when transferred , promoted or retired, must complete their resignation within the time limit set by the company or within 21 days if no such deadline has been set.
( b) 	If it cannot be done within the time limit as per clause (a), the reason should be disclosed to the taluk office and it should be done as per the order.
( c) 	If it cannot be cleared according to Clause (b), the necessary investigation shall be done by the official appointed by the Central Office.
( d) 	In case of counting or weighing of the goods, it should be done with the help of the staff of your office , and if it is not possible to do it with your help , the necessary help should be kept in the wage bill.
( e) 	No employee shall be exempted from the obligation to act on the ground that he is a temporary appointee or has a permanent position or is on a wage or contract basis .
( f) 	If the incumbent does not attend on time for Barbujarath, if he is the head of the office, the former will hand it over to the employee one level below him and in the case of other employees, he will have to hand it over to the employee designated by the head of the office and that employee will also have to pay
( g) 	After the current person comes to appear, the employee who takes the request must complete the request within the above-mentioned time limit.
( 3) 	According to sub-regulation (2), if it is found that there is loss or embezzlement of cash or goods or belongings etc. during the raid, if the cash, goods or any goods in your custody cannot be fully filed, such cash or goods will be taken into custody . Departmental action should also be taken against the person taking such cash amount and the value of the goods.
( 4) 	According to sub-regulation (3), when charging the price, the condition of the goods and the current market price will also be considered. In this way, the work of maintaining the price will be done by a committee consisting of the head of the relevant office , the head of accounting and one other representative appointed by the head of the office.
( 5) 	According to sub-regulation (1), if the concerned head of the office has to assign work to an employee, he/she shall assign the assignment as soon as possible.
( 6) 	An employee who has the duty to perform the funeral according to sub-regulation (1) has retired from the job and has not been found or died or is unconscious due to health reasons or has become unconscious and the family member of such employee wants to perform the funeral in the name of the person designated by the Managing Director who should be paid. Yes, it should be understood.
( 7) 	After the employee who has the duty to perform the training according to sub-regulation (1) has performed the training according to the same, a certificate of training will be given to him from the former office in the format prescribed by the company.
( 8) 	An employee who is absent will not be allowed to appear in the current office without submitting the certificate of absence as per sub-regulation (7). If such an employee is a retired person, he will not be paid any other amount including gratuity or pension without submitting the Barbujarath certificate.
 
Paragraph – 4
accounting , auditing and verification
17. 	Accounting book:
( 1) 	The accounting book of the company shall be kept in accordance with the Nepal Accounting Standards and the accounting policy of the company.
( 2) 	The accounting policy of the company shall be as determined by the committee.
( 3) 	If any provision of this accounting regulation or accounting policy requires further clarification or explanation, the explanation made by the committee for the company's business operations shall be final.
( 4) 	The managing director will prepare and implement the accounting guidelines under the approved accounting policy. If further clarification or explanation is required regarding the accounting direction, the explanation given by the Managing Director will be final.
( 5) 	It will be the responsibility of the Accounts Office to submit a report to the Taluk Office along with trial balance and other financial details after receiving the clearance from the Central Office or the Regional Office.
( 6) 	The duty and responsibility of the head of the office and the head of accounts shall be to prepare and keep the accounts up to date so that financial transactions are clearly visible .
( 7) 	The company's annual profit and loss account and balance sheet should be submitted to the committee within 4 months after the end of the year, including the physical examination of cash and goods .
18. 	Keeping records of transactions
( 1) 	Every accounting office shall keep the accounts of the transactions of its own and subordinate offices in accordance with this regulation and the approved accounting policy of the company .
( 2) 	The head of the office should check whether the accounts are updated or not. If there are other offices under your office, you have to visit such offices yourself or send other employees to inspect them .
( 3) 	The supervising office , directorate , department and related accounting department at the central level and the internal audit department may check whether the accounts to be kept in the office are properly maintained or not , the balance of the contract is correct or not. should be presented before The Managing Director shall send the report to the Deputy Managing Director (Finance) with details of the action to be taken to the supervising directorate , department and related office within seven days and it shall be the responsibility of the related directorate , department , head of office and head of accounting to implement accordingly.
( 4) 	Regarding the preparation and submission of accounting or accounting statements, if there is a provision in this regulation or the approved accounting policy or accounting direction, and if there is no provision, the accounting statement shall be submitted as follows:
( a) 	statement to be sent daily , next day;
( b) 	within three days of the expiry of the statement to be sent weekly ,
( c) 	Statements to be sent monthly within seven days of monthly payment ,
( d) The details requested 	from the accounting departments of the central office , internal audit and inspection department or supervision department within the deadline mentioned in the requested letter.
★ 19. 	Actions will be taken against those who do not keep accounts or do not submit reports
against the head of office , head of accounting and employees who are responsible for submitting financial statements / reports who do not keep accounts or do not submit financial statements / reports on time.
20. 	Conducting an internal audit:
( 1) 	The internal audit and inspection department of all accounting offices of the company shall regularly complete the internal audit work according to the internal audit direction approved by the committee before the final audit.
( 2) 	It shall be the responsibility of the head of the office and the head of accounts to update the accounts by presenting evidence or by submitting evidence if it is necessary to submit evidence, or by submitting a collection.
( 3) 	The internal audit and inspection department shall give one copy of the report issued from the internal audit to the relevant office , one copy to the relevant supervising directorate or department and one copy to the managing director.
( 4) The Internal Audit and Inspection 	Department shall submit quarterly and annual reports to the Managing Director or the Board of Directors after supervision based on the response and action details of the relevant office in the internal audit.
21. 	Audit:
It will be the responsibility of the Head of Office and Head of Accounts to conduct the internal and final audit within the time frame.
22. 	Provisions related to Veruju records and distribution:
( 1) 	The errors found in the internal and final audit should be collected and recorded in the internal audit and inspection department and the branches under the department and should also be recorded in the relevant accounting office.
( 2) 	In addition to the need to submit evidence or regularize, accounting should be done in the case of the audit of the invoices that need to be collected. If it is not submitted within the next audit period, if it is required to submit regular or evidence, then accounting should be done as if it is to be charged. If there is a debt that needs to be recovered, the cost must be deducted within 35 days.
( 3) 	When the head of the office or the head of accounting is transferred to another place or retires, he should make arrangements to submit the account of income and expenditure of his time , cash , goods, and also the cost of food .
( 4) 	The head of office and the head of accounting or the responsible person shall be the managing director, who will have the final responsibility to take action according to the prevailing law to check whether or not fraud has been committed.
23. 	Weruju Fachhrout Evaluation and Monitoring Committee:
Evaluation and monitoring committee will be formed at the central level and regional level to bring effectiveness in work related to veruzu waste by evaluating and monitoring it as follows:
( 1) 	Central Level:
Managing Director 										Chairman
Deputy Managing Director , ( Finance) 							Member
☎ 	Deputy Managing Director 						Member concerned
Deputy Managing Director , ( Internal
Audit and Inspection Department) 				Member
Manager , ( Internal Audit &
inspection department)		  					Member Secretary
( 2) 	Regional level:
Regional Director 										Chairman
Regional Accounts Lead 									Member
Member of Regional Technical Branch							
Regional Internal Audit and Inspection
Branch Head or Officer		  				Member Secretary
( 3) 	The regional committee shall submit evaluation and monitoring reports to the central level committee and the central level committee to the board of directors on a quarterly basis.
★ 23a. Audit Committee: ★
❖ ( 1) 	An audit committee consisting of at least three members should be formed under the chairmanship of a director who is not involved in the day-to-day operation or management of the company. ❖  ☎
( 2) 	No person who is a close relative of the executive head of the company shall be a member of the audit committee constituted as per sub-section (1).
( 3) 	At least one member of the audit committee should be an experienced person with a professional certificate related to accounting or a person with at least a bachelor's degree in accounting , commerce , management , finance or economics and experience in the field of accounting and finance.
( 4) 	A brief description of the activities of the audit committee , if the audit committee has given any suggestions, the strategy adopted by the board of directors to implement such suggestions , if the members of the audit committee have received any allowances or facilities, the names of the members of the audit committee should be included in the report of the board of directors to be prepared by the company. Will have to open up.
( 5) 	The audit committee may call the managing director of the company , the executive head of the company or other directors involved in the day-to-day operations of the company , auditors , internal auditors and the head of accounts to a meeting to inquire about a matter, and if such notice is given, it will be their duty to attend the meeting of the committee.
( 6) 	The board of directors shall implement the suggestions given by the audit committee regarding the accounting and financial arrangements of the company, and if any suggestion cannot be implemented, the board of directors shall disclose the reason in the report.
( 7) 	The company should arrange sufficient means and resources to carry out the duties of the audit committee and the audit committee will regulate its own internal procedures .
( 8) 	The chairman of the audit committee must attend the annual general meeting of the company.
( 9) 	Audit committee meetings will be held as required.
★ 23.B. Work , duties and rights of the audit committee : ★
, duties and powers of the audit committee constituted as per sub-section (1) of section 23(a) shall be as follows:
( a) 	To review the accounting and financial statements of the company and ascertain the truth of the facts mentioned in such statements ,
( b) 	Company's internal financial control system (Internal Financial Control System) and risk management system
( Risk Management System) review ,
( c) 	To supervise and review the work related to internal audit of the company ,
( d) 	To recommend the names of potential auditors for the appointment of auditors of the company and to determine their remuneration and terms of appointment and submit them to the general meeting for approval ,
( e) 	To monitor and review whether or not the auditor of the company has followed the conduct , standards and guidelines determined by the authorized body in accordance with the prevailing laws ,
( f) 	To determine the policy to be adopted by the company in relation to the appointment and selection of auditors based on the conduct , standards and guidelines prepared by the authorized body in accordance with the prevailing laws ,
( g) 	Prepare and implement accounting policy of the company ,
( h) 	If any regulatory body has provided detailed information (long-form audit report) to be disclosed in the company's audit report, then fulfill the necessary conditions for preparing such information ,
( j) 	To perform other tasks assigned by the board of directors in relation to the company's accounts , financial arrangements and audits.
 
Paragraph – 5
Purchases and acquisitions
❖ 23c. Details of goods , construction work and other services or consulting services should be prepared : ❖
( 1) The company 	shall prepare specifications , plans , maps , designs , special requirements or other details related to the purchase of goods , construction work , other services or consulting services .
( 2) 	While preparing the details according to sub-regulation (1), it shall be prepared on the basis of objective technical and qualitative characteristics and work related to such goods , construction work , other services or consulting services.
( 3) 	While preparing the details in accordance with sub-regulations (1) and (2), no particular brand , trademark , name , patent , unless there is no other way to mention the characteristics of the goods , construction work or other services or consulting services in a way that is clearly understood . The design , type , origin or name of the manufacturer cannot be mentioned.
		But in cases where it is not mentioned, any specific brand , trademark , name , patent , design , type , origin or manufacturer's name shall be mentioned as " similar " . to say the words Mention to do will end .
( 4) 	In the tender or pre-qualification document, the description and technical or quality characteristics of the goods or construction work or other services and when mentioning the basis or indication or terminology related to the testing, marking , packaging , labeling or certificate of confirmation (certificate of conformity) such goods or Details, grounds, indications or terminology that are unrelated to the construction work or other service work , hinder qualified bidders from participating in the procurement process or limit competition without justification cannot be mentioned.
❖ 23h. 	Preparation and updating of cost estimates : ◈
( 1) 	The company should prepare a cost estimate for any purchase.
	However , the cost of purchasing up to twenty five thousand rupees should not be estimated.
( 2) When 	the company prepares the cost estimate, the cost of bidding or performance guarantee including mobilization and demobilization expenses , insurance , facilities to be given to the consultant , quality testing , business health and safety , edge wilt map , commission expenses of performance guarantee etc. It should be included in the estimate.
( 3) 	After the cost estimate is prepared, it should be checked by a technician (at least authorized level) or a group of experts one level above the technician who prepared it. If there is no examining authority, the approving authority can examine and approve.
( 4) 	If the purchase is not made according to the cost estimate prepared according to this regulation, the company shall follow the procedure of this regulation and update such cost estimate every financial year.
❖ 23d. Qualification of Bidder or Proposer:
( 1) 	The bidder or proposer must have fulfilled the following qualifications to obtain the purchase agreement:
( a) 	the basis of qualification mentioned in the tender document by the bidder or the proposer or the basis of qualification mentioned in the pre-qualification document in case of pre-qualification procedure for procurement , and
( b) 	Eligibility grounds mentioned by the offeror in the offer documents.
( 2) 	In accordance with sub-regulation (1), when mentioning the grounds of qualification in the tender documents or proposal documents, professional and technical qualifications , availability of equipment , past work performance , after-sales service arrangements , availability of spare parts , legal competence , financial resources and conditions , professional misconduct. Punishment and other similar grounds can be mentioned.
( 3) 	When mentioning the basis according to sub-regulation (2), it cannot be arranged that only a certain category of builders , suppliers , consultants or service providers can participate or that a certain category of builders , suppliers , consultants or service providers cannot participate.
( 4) 	While evaluating bids , proposals for pre-qualification and proposals for consulting services, they shall be evaluated only according to the basis mentioned in the documents related to bids , documents related to pre-qualification and documents related to request for proposals, and such bases shall be applied equally to all bidders or proposers without any discrimination.
( 5) 	Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this regulation, no qualification shall be determined for the construction work or purchase estimated to cost less than sixty lakh rupees.
( 6) 	If the qualification information submitted by the bidder or proposer is found to be factually false or substantially insufficient, the company may disqualify such bidder or proposer at any time. But in case of minor errors, it can be corrected by requesting information from the relevant bidder or proposer.
		Explanation: For the purpose of this bye-law “ minor error " That is to say Bid related to in the document mentioned technician Errors such as linguistic inaccuracies or proof-related errors that are not fundamentally different from things like specifications , descriptions, etc. are meant.
❖ 23f. Purchase responsibility: ❖
( 1) 	The Managing Director shall be responsible for preparing the procurement plan in accordance with this regulation and performing or causing all other procurement-related tasks to be completed in accordance with the procedures in accordance with this regulation.
( 2) 	In accordance with sub-regulation (1), the company shall have employees who have knowledge or received training related to procurement while performing procurement-related activities.
( 3) 	The company shall establish or designate a procurement unit to perform the following functions:
( a) 	Preparation of procurement plan ,
( b) 	Sample bid documents prepared by the company
( Standard Bidding Document) , sample pre-qualification document (Standard Prequalification Document), sample purchase agreement document (Standard Contract Document) and prepare pre-qualification document , tender document and purchase agreement document by modifying as needed ,
( c) 	Prepare a document related to the proposal of consulting services by modifying the sample proposal request document (Standard Request for Proposal) prepared by the company as needed ,
( d) 	Publicly publishing information related to procurement ,
( e) 	Distributing documents related to pre-qualification , documents related to bidding or sending documents related to proposals for consulting services ,
( f) 	receiving pre-qualification proposals , tenders or proposals for consulting services and keeping them safe ;
( g) To submit 	the pre-qualification proposals , tenders or proposals for consultancy services to the evaluation committee for evaluation and to submit the evaluated tenders for approval .
( h) 	Giving notice of acceptance of proposal for pre-qualification , tender or proposal for consultancy services ,
( i) 	To take the performance bond and test it and keep it in a safe manner ,
( j) 	To test the quality of purchased goods , construction works or services ,
( k) 	Providing information and documents requested by the Public Procurement Monitoring Office , and
( l) 	Perform other tasks assigned by the company.
( 4) 	While doing or carrying out the work according to sub-regulation (3), the purchasing unit or the unit assigned the responsibility shall take the approval of the authorized officer.
24. 	Land acquisition and purchase arrangements:
( 1) 	If the land suitable for the company's development work and office use is obtained free of charge, the land will be registered in the name of the company.
( 2) The company may purchase the necessary land as follows:
❖ ( a) 	The location and surrounding area where the land is to be purchased , transportation facilities and other technical details should be disclosed and bids should be requested from the land owners with a deadline of at least 30 days. ❖
( b) 	According to the tender notice of clause (a), the land owner who bids must submit the details mentioned in the notice as well as the certified documents related to the ownership of his land .
( c) 	There will be an evaluation committee with related technicians to perform technical and on-site inspection of the land mentioned in the bids submitted according to clause (b). The land recommended by the evaluation committee as suitable can be purchased by the company.
★ ( d) ★ 	Any in the field of telephone of expansion for technician From the point of view only one land appropriate having been and like that in the field other land of the company for inappropriate if seen popular land attainment Act according to The said land Acquisition done match the day Nepal to the government request done so The bomb will be detonated.
❖ ( e) ❖ 	of clauses ( a ) and ( d ). in case Except technician From the point of view appropriate stay having been sure of the area Rs . Twenty million up to land Also, if it is necessary to purchase m , the land can be purchased on the recommendation of the compensation amount determination committee chaired by the concerned Chief District Officer.
( 3) 	Land purchasing officer:
The following officials can purchase the land for the company for the following amounts.
( a) 	Rs. Up to 10 lakhs by the relevant directorate or project head or manager ,
( b) 	Rs. The deputy managing director related to land up to fifty lakhs ,
( c)  	Rs. More than fifty million to one million by the managing director. But if you have to purchase from public institutions that are fully owned by the Government of Nepal, Rs. Managing Director up to five crores ,
( d) 	The managing director after taking the approval of the land committee in excess of the limit specified in clause (c). 
 
25. 	Method of purchasing or receiving goods:
( 1) 	No purchase or acquisition shall be made or made without the written order of the authorized officer.
( 2) 	When purchasing goods, the following should be done:
☑ ( a) 	Up to three lakh rupees at a time from Sobhai m purchases. ❖ ☑ 
			can purchase up to five lakh rupees at a time .
☑ ( b) 	Up to fifty lakh rupees at a time through sealed bond.
☑ ( c) 	through tenders of any amount above fifty million rupees.
	     ❖ However , considering the time of release of the annual budget and the approved budget, when purchasing the goods to be purchased, arrangements should be made to call for bids and arrange for the purchase. While purchasing according to this regulation, it should not be purchased piecemeal so as to limit the competition.
❖ ( 3) 	.............................................. ...................
❖ ( 4) 	.............................................. .....................
❖ ( 5) 	Notwithstanding anything written in sub-regulation (2), if goods which are not available in the country are purchased from abroad, Rs. If you have to buy goods up to 10 lakhs, you can buy m immediately.
★ ( 6) ★ Rs . five More than crores of more stuff Purchase or attainment do fallen in case maintenance Maintenance The procurement process should be carried forward based on the recommendations of the committee consisting of the deputy managing directors of the department , the development department , the planning department and the finance department and the experts of the relevant subject appointed by the managing director.
☑ 26. 	Provision of purchase by purchase order:
According to Clause (A) of Sub-Regulation (2) of Regulation 25, while purchasing goods from the market, regardless of the amount above ten thousand rupees, the purchase must be made only with an approved purchase order.
❖ 27. 	Also m special arrangement related to purchase : ❖ ☑
( 1) 	Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in these Regulations, goods or consultancy services or other services may be procured or construction work carried out in the following cases:-
( a) 	If only one supplier or contractor or consultant or service provider has the technical competence or ability to fulfill the procurement conditions ,
( b) 	When the right to supply the goods to be purchased is with only one supplier and there is no other suitable alternative, when purchasing such proprietary goods from that supplier or through his authorized seller or authorized agent ,
( c) 	If the supplier or consultant or service provider is changed to replace or expand the existing goods or services or the parts of the connected mechanism, it is proved that the goods or services in the company cannot be replaced or expanded, and the production of additional goods or services in a proprietary form from the previous supplier or consultant or service provider. or in case of purchase from the supplying firm or company or agent of such firm or company ,
( d) 	If, due to unforeseeable reasons, it is not included in the initial contract and it is difficult for technical or financial reasons to complete it separately from the initial contract, if essential construction work , goods , consulting services or other services are to be purchased ,
( e) 	If the services of a special consultant with a specific (unique) qualification are urgently needed for the related work or if there is an unavoidable reason to take the services of the previous consultant ,
( f) 	In case of purchasing or renting house , land , goods , tower , equipment and services from government and Nepal government-owned associations and institutions ,
☑ ( 2) ☑ 	dd ) According to the by - laws goods or service Purchase while the following of un'sar of the committee recommendation according to Purchase 5 to count : (
( a) In the case of central office or procurement, the company's planning department , finance department , development department and deputy managing director of the maintenance and operation department and one person related to the work appointed by the managing director on the recommendation of the committee.
( b) In the case of the directorate and the procurement under it, the technical branch manager of the related directorate or department , the department or branch manager related to the purchase , the accounting manager and one person appointed by the director, on the recommendation of the committee.
( 3) In case of 	purchase according to this regulation, the company shall prepare the necessary details of its needs and quality, quantity, supply conditions and time, and also take into account the life of the existing equipment and the returns that can be obtained from it, and submit a written rate or proposal to the sole supplier or consultant. Or you can request and negotiate with the service provider as needed.
( 4) 	According to this regulation, the following things should be completed before purchasing Sobhai m :-
( a) 	Whether the goods to be purchased are in stock.
( b) Whether or not 	the proposed builder , supplier , consultant or service provider has the necessary qualifications to perform the work as per the purchase agreement.
( c) 	Whether the proposal submitted by the proposed builder , supplier , consultant or service provider as per the demand of the company is in accordance with the specification and technical quality determined by the company.
( d) 	Whether the price offered by the proposed builder , supplier , consultant or service provider is reasonable.
( 5) 	In order to determine whether the price according to clause (d) of sub-regulation (4) is reasonable, the company may negotiate with the proposed builder , supplier , consultant or service provider after analyzing the rate based on the market study , pre-purchase price , cost estimate.
☑ ( 6) ☑ 	of sub-regulation ( 1 ) . According to clause ( c ). Proprietary goods If the opinion of the committee as per sub-regulation (2) is determined to be in the company's interest while purchasing goods and purchasing essential construction work , goods , consulting services or other services as per clause (d) of the same sub-regulation, then by obtaining a sealed price list keeping in mind the current international rate or immediately m Taking the appropriate basis regarding the price through negotiation, it can be purchased up to 50% of the previous original contract price without increasing the price of the previous purchase.
		However , while purchasing the equipment in this way, the lifespan of the existing equipment and the return that can be obtained from it should also be taken into consideration.
Explanation:
For the purposes of this Regulation:-
( a) 	“ Proprietary goods " That is to say in operation being the main device or equipment or to technology complete in capacity Operation to do or qualities and of consequence upgrade to do or maintenance of the administration for the sake of It should be understood as necessary equipment and spare parts made by such device or equipment or technology manufacturer.
( b) 	“ Proprietary service " That is to say in operation being any In technology necessary due service to remember should . 
☑ ( 7) 	Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (6), by-laws
( 1), upon proper analysis of the need , nature , quantity and profit cost of the goods or services to be purchased, sufficient conditions and reasonable cause may cause significant damage to the company if such goods or services are not purchased immediately. 2) If the justification of the recommendation made by the committee is confirmed, the purchase can be made up to an amount exceeding fifty percent of the original contract price but not exceeding one hundred percent of the price. ☑
 
28. 	Regulation not attracted:
	The grant or loan assistance agreement or memorandum of understanding between the government of Nepal and the foreign government or the majority-owned organization of the foreign government or the international organization or the memorandum of understanding under the agreement or when purchasing or carrying out construction work or providing services in accordance with the procurement and construction guidelines of such organizations, mention in such agreement In any case, the provisions of this regulation will not be attracted.
❖ 29. 	Provisions related to Sealed Bills : ❖
( 1) Before asking for a sealed price list, a sealed price list form should be prepared clearly stating 	the specifications , quality , quantity , terms of supply and time and other necessary details of the goods , construction work or other services to be purchased .
( 2) 	The following items should be mentioned in the form of Seal Bandi Darbhaupatra:-
( a) details of 	goods to be supplied , works to be completed or services to be rendered ,
( b) 	Eligibility of sealed bidders (except construction procurement) ,
( c) 	If a performance bond is required ,
( d) 	the period during which the sealed bond is valid ,
( e) 	The thing that should be properly stamped by the bidder in the sealed bid form ,
( f) 	Method of Valuation of Sealed Deeds ,
( g) 	In the case of goods, warranty related liability and in the case of construction work, liability up to the period of error correction.
( 3) 	According to sub-regulation (2), after the details form is prepared, the notice of the sealed rate quotation should be published. The following should be mentioned in such notification:-
( a) 	the place where the sealed invoice form can be obtained and the fee charged for the same ,
( b) the type 	, amount and period of security , if required ;
( c) 	the manner of sending the sealed invoice ,
( d) 	the name and address of the office or officer to whom the sealed bond should be sent ,
( e) 	the last date and time for the filing of the seal bond ,
( f) the date 	, time and place of opening of the sealed bond ,
( g) 	Other necessary things.
( 4) A person 	, firm , organization or company interested in submitting a sealed bid must pay three hundred rupees and purchase a bid form and submit the sealed bid in the same form.
( 5) 	The form of the tender as per sub-regulation (4) must be signed and stamped by the authorized officer or the employee designated by him.
☑ ( 6) ☑ 	Sealing Price list to give Individuals , firms , companies or organizations must submit a cash guarantee of two and a half percent of the amount pledged or a bank guarantee issued by a commercial bank designated by the company with a validity period of six months.
( 7) 	When requesting a sealed bid, a notice shall be published in a national or local daily newspaper with a period of at least fifteen days.
( 8) 	Once submitted, the sealed price list cannot be returned or revised.
( 9) 	The validity period of the sealed bond will be forty-five days.
( 10) 	As soon as the deadline for submission of the sealed tender is over, the company shall open the sealed tender form in the presence of the sealed tender offeror or his representative at the place specified in the notice of invitation of the sealed tender.
( 11) 	According to sub-regulation (10) within fifteen days from the date of opening of the sealed bid, the company shall approve the sealed bid according to regulation (17) and the information thereof shall be given to all the sealed bid holders.
( 12) 	According to sub-regulation (11), within seven days after the acceptance of the sealed bid, the company shall give notice to the respective bidder to enter into the purchase agreement.
( 13) 	The sealed bidder who receives the notice according to sub-regulation (12) shall submit a performance guarantee (performance guarantee) issued by a commercial bank in cash or a performance guarantee issued by a commercial bank within seven days from the date of receiving the notice .
( 14) 	The surety deposited by the sealed bond holder in accordance with sub-regulation (6) shall be forfeited in the following cases:-
( a) 	If the selected sealed bidder does not enter into a purchase agreement ,
( b) 	if the performance bond specified in the sealed promissory note form is not given within the time limit for entering into the purchase agreement , and
( c) 	Regulation 55 b. If you act contrary to the conduct.
( 15) 	Price list of sellers who do not have value added tax and permanent accounting registration certificate should not be accepted.
( 16) 	If there is a difference between numerals and letters, the one written in letters will be recognized.
( 17) 	The minimum estimated price list that falls within the cost estimate should be approved after fulfilling the conditions as per sub-regulation (1).
❖ 30. 	Carrying out work related to shipping , clearing and forwarding ❖
( 1) When 	the company carries out work related to shipping , clearing and forwarding, it must prepare a cost estimate in accordance with Regulation 23D.
( 2) 	When preparing the cost estimate for transportation by land, the company shall prepare a rough cost estimate based on the rate determined by the rate determination committee in the case of district level or based on the prevailing market rate when transporting by air.
( 3) 	When transporting goods of the following amount, the following method should be used .
☑ ( a) ☑ By land retailer Shipping When one at times one lakh Up to Rs and By air retailer Shipping When one Up to five lakh rupees per month .
	However , in the case of transporting up to two lakh rupees by land and up to twenty lakh rupees by air at a time, the transportation can be carried out immediately with the prior approval of the managing director.
☑ ( b) 	For works up to fifty lakh rupees more than mentioned in Clause (a) from Sealbandi Darbhaupatra.
( c) 	By bidding when transporting an amount more than the amount mentioned in clause (b).
31. Arrangements for 	construction , connection , maintenance and improvement works:
★ ( 1) For the purpose of 	any construction , connection , maintenance and improvement work of the company , a cost estimate should be prepared based on the approved drawing , design , specification , standards (numbers) and rate analysis, on the basis of on-site inspection and also the achievement of goods. The cost estimate prepared in this way should also include the time period required to do the work. After such cost estimate is prepared, it should be checked by a technician (at least authorized level) or a group of experts one level above the technician who prepared it. If there is no examining authority, the approving authority can examine and approve. ★
❖ ( 2) ❖ Approved cost estimate According to Construction , connection , repair or improvement work should be done as follows:
☑ ( a) 	If the work is to be carried out up to five lakh rupees, immediately from purchase. ☑
		But BTS is a service based on wireless technology. Or to construct a room for V-SAT connection with the prior approval of the Managing Director, the work costing more than five lakh rupees up to ten lakh rupees, and from the purchase of BTS of wireless technology based services in remote areas where road transport is not available . Or to construct a room for V-SAT connection, the work costing more than five lakh rupees and up to fifteen lakh rupees can be done immediately by taking the prior approval of the Managing Director.
☑ ( b) 	In case of doing work up to five million rupees more than the amount mentioned in clause (a) by taking a sealed invoice from the basis thereof. ❖ ☑
( c) 	By tendering for works exceeding the amount mentioned in Clause (b).
❖ ( 3) 	According to this regulation, when construction work is carried out by means of quotations or tenders, it shall be carried out by construction professionals registered under the Construction Business Act , 2055.
		However , for remote areas, this restriction can be removed according to the decision of the committee. Every year, while approving the budget and program, the committee will also approve the practices of which remote districts will not be subject to this ban.
❖ ( 4) 	.............................................. .....................
❖ ( 5) 	.............................................. .....................
❖ ( 6) 	.............................................. .....................
❖ ( 7) 	.............................................. .....................
❖ ( 8) 	.............................................. ...................
32. 	Working from deposit:
( 1) 	Generally, one should not work from deposits. If bids are requested in accordance with this regulation, if no bids are received or construction works are to be carried out on deposit due to special circumstances, construction works can be carried out according to the approved cost estimate by submitting it to the office one level above and obtaining approval. If the company deems it necessary, it can form a committee and carry out any work that needs to be done from the deposit.
( 2) 	If construction related work has to be done from the deposit, such work can be negotiated in sections without increasing it to one lakh rupees or can be given in a wage purchase agreement by providing the necessary construction materials.
( 3) If 	the office has to purchase necessary goods or provide services while working from the deposit, it must complete the purchase and receipt process according to this regulation .
❖ 33. 	Provisions regarding pre-qualification : ❖
( 1) 	To carry out construction work determined by the company to be large and complex from time to time, or to purchase telecommunications equipment or goods of high value (generally: more than five million rupees) or to identify qualified bidders, to prepare pre-qualification documents and submit proposals before inviting bids. Public notice can be called.
( 2) 	If the company deems it appropriate, it can determine pre-qualification for other purchases as well.
( 3) 	In the document related to pre-qualification as per sub-regulation (1) or (2), the basis of qualification required for pre-qualification , proposal , preparation and submission method shall be mentioned.
( 4) 	The company shall provide such documents to all individuals , firms , companies , organizations who request documents related to pre-qualification required to submit proposals as per sub-regulations (1) and (2).
( 5) 	The selection of qualified applicants shall be made on the basis of the qualifications mentioned in sub-regulation (3). The list of selected applicants should be published by the company and sent to all applicants.
( 6) 	Within thirty days of giving the notice as per sub-regulation (5), if any applicant whose proposal for pre-qualification has been rejected requests information on the reason why his proposal was rejected, the relevant office shall provide such information to him.
( 7) 	According to sub-regulation (1), the notice of invitation to bid for pre-qualification must be published in a national level daily newspaper and in the case of an international level bid, it may also be published in international media.
( 8) 	The following things should be disclosed in the notice of pre-qualification proposal invitation:
( a) 	Name and address of the office inviting proposals ,
( b) 	the place where the pre-qualification document is available , the method of obtaining it and the fee for the same ,
( c) the place 	, manner , last date and time of submitting or sending the pre-qualification proposal ,
( d) The date 	, time , place and place of opening of proposals related to pre-qualification and inviting the proposer or his authorized representative at the time of opening of proposals ,
( e) 	period of validity of the proposal ,
( f) 	In case of demand for bail, the validity period of that bail ,
( g) 	Other necessary things.
( 9) 	When publishing the notice according to sub-regulation (1), a period of at least thirty days shall be given in the case of the notice of invitation for the proposal of pre-qualification determination at the national level and at least forty-five days in the case of the notice of invitation for the proposal of pre-qualification determination of the international level.
( 10) 	In accordance with clause (c) of sub-regulation (3), when disclosing the place where documents related to pre-qualification can be found, arrangements should be made to find such documents in two or more offices.
( 11) 	In accordance with clause (d) of sub-regulation (3), when opening the place for submission or submission of proposals related to pre-qualification, arrangements shall be made to submit or send only to one office.
	Explanation: For the purposes of this by-law, “ the same office " That is to say Nepal It will refer to the departments , directorates and telecommunication offices under the Telecommunications and Company Limited.
( 12) 	According to sub-regulation (1), the following should be mentioned in the pre-qualification document:
( a) 	the qualification required for the proposed work and in case of joint venture the qualification of the partner ,
( b) Documents and information to be submitted 	by the proposer to confirm his eligibility and eligibility ,
( c) 	If goods or construction works are to be purchased in separate groups or packages, such groups or packages ,
( d) 	the manner of preparing the proposal ,
( e) 	the process of evaluating proposals for pre-qualification ,
( f) 	The main terms and conditions of the purchase agreement ,
( g) the manner 	, place , last date and time of submission of pre-qualification proposals ,
( h) 	nature of procurement , time period for procurement and technical specifications thereof ,
( j) 	Other necessary things.
( 13) 	The company should get approval from the prescribed pre-qualification base committee before inviting the pre-qualification proposal.
( 14) 	While selecting the eligible applicant, the evaluation committee shall conduct necessary tests on whether the pre-qualification applicant fulfills each of the eligibility criteria mentioned in the pre-qualification document. During such test, the applicant who fulfills all the eligibility criteria will be considered selected in the eligibility test and the applicant who does not fulfill all eligibility criteria will be considered not selected.
( 15) 	Prequalified applicants selected in the test as per sub-regulation (14) shall be deemed eligible to submit bids for the related procurement process.
( 16) 	While evaluating the pre-qualification proposal, it should be evaluated according to the basis mentioned in the pre-qualification document and such basis will be applied equally to all the proposers without any discrimination.
☑ ( 17) ☑ 	None sure in time done to be able network of expansion ducting and Wireless of service b . T. _ S. _ of connection for necessary Infrastructures Tower , electrification , power equipments , shelters and A.C. construction and installation works and service operations to be continuously supplied for the construction and operation of the building, including the buildings, buildings , buildings, buildings, etc. The offerors who have been selected from the pre-qualification offer can be given the job to the offeror who offers the lowest price by competing on price and other offerors can also be given the job on the condition that they work at the lowest price. In this way, only if the work carried out section by section is satisfactory, more work can be given to the same builder or supplier or consultant or service provider.
		However , if there is an artificial competition, if the offer is made in concert with each other or if the offer is substantially different from the prevailing market price, all the offers will be canceled and removed from the pre-qualification list.
Specifically, the unit rate mentioned in this by-law refers to the unit rate obtained from the pre - qualification proposal or the selected bidders.
☑ ( 18) 	According to sub-regulation (17) when giving work to the bidders selected in a package as specified in the package, the builder or supplier or consultant or service provider shall keep a bond of five percent of the construction and connection cost and if the work is not completed on time or if the work is abandoned in the middle, the company shall be liable for damages. The loss amount will be deducted from the said bond.
❖ 33a. Consulting services can be purchased: ❖ ☑
( 1) 	For project feasibility study , research , drawing , design , specification , survey and supervision of construction and connection work , maintenance , training or any other similar technical or consulting services , it is necessary to take consulting services from any expert or group of experts or consulting association or organization. If it is possible to purchase such technical or consulting services from the company, considering the skilled technicians or manpower available in the company, as well as the tools and equipment.
( 2) 	According to sub-regulation (1), if consulting services are to be taken, such services can be taken by appointing an expert or a group of experts or a consulting association as follows.
☑ ( a) 	In case of service fee up to three lakh rupees, through negotiation.
☑ ( b) 	In case of service fee ranging from three lakh rupees to ten lakh rupees, at least three firms , companies or institutions of the same level are requested to offer technical and financial proposals from the lowest bidder. ❖ ☑
( c) 	From the sealed technical and financial proposal from the selected consultants after taking the letter of intent for any service fee exceeding ten lakh rupees.
❖ 33b. A brief list should be prepared by openly asking for letter of intent:
( 1) 	Regulation 33A. To prepare a short list for the purchase of consulting services in the amount specified in clause (c) of sub-regulation (2) and to collect letters of intent from persons , firms , organizations or companies interested in providing such consulting services, publishing a notice in a national level newspaper giving a period of at least fifteen days . will have to do. Such information can be placed on the website of the company or public procurement monitoring office.
	However , an international letter of intent should be requested in the following cases:-
( a) 	In case of procurement of consulting services generally exceeding three crores of rupees ,
( b) 	If the consulting service as per the company's demand cannot be obtained from more than one consultant within the state of Nepal at a competitive price ,
( c) 	In the event that a proposal is requested at the national level for consulting services and the service is required to be obtained from a foreign consultant without receiving any proposal , or
( d) 	If it is necessary to receive services from a consultant by requesting an international level letter of intent to be paid from foreign aid sources in accordance with the agreement with the donor party.
( 2) In accordance with sub-regulation (1), after evaluating the qualification 	, experience and capacity of the letter of intent, the company shall select and prepare a short list of generally three to six letter of intent providers who can provide such consulting services.
( 3) 	When requesting an international level letter of intent, the notice must be published in English.
( 4) 	In the notification requesting the letter of intent, the following should be disclosed:-
( a) 	Name and address of the company ,
( b) 	General description of the proposed work or project
( c) 	Qualification of the applicant ,
( d) 	If the letter of intent is a firm or a company ,
( 1) 	Details of firm or company , organization and employees ,
( 2) If 	two or more firms or companies provide consulting services as a group , organization or joint venture, the name , address , details and the name of the firm or company that works mainly ,
( 3) 	Details of work and location of similar nature completed in the last five years , and
( 4) 	Personal details of key personnel involved in the proposed work.
( e) 	In the case of individual consultants, the details of the work and location of similar nature completed in the last three years and his/her personal details ,
( f) 	Estimated time required to complete the proposed work ,
( g) 	Proposals for the purchase of consulting services will be requested only from shortlisted individuals , firms , institutions or companies .
( h) 	Documents to be submitted by the applicant ,
( j) 	Instructions for preparing the letter of intent and the last date and place for submitting the letter of intent , and
( j) 	Address and contact person to contact the company.
( 5) 	When requesting an international level letter of intent, the company must obtain the approval of an officer one level above.
( 6) 	When choosing an international letter of intent, the company should choose a firm or company with different countries , backgrounds and a local agent.
( 7) 	According to the notice as per sub-regulation (1), the reputed consultant who has not submitted the letter of intent can be contacted and his name can be included in the short list.
( 8) 	In choosing the bearer of intent under this rule or the by-laws
If at least three letter of intent applicants cannot be selected while including the names as per ( 7), the company shall publish the notice again and request the letter of intent.
( 9) 	According to sub-regulation (8), if at least three letters of intent are not selected even when the notice is published for the second time, only the list of those who have been selected can be maintained.
( 10) 	The information of the list prepared according to this regulation shall be given by the company to all the applicants who submit the letter of intent.
❖ 33c. Asking for proposals: ❖
( 1) 	After the shortlist is prepared according to Regulation 33B, the company shall send the documents related to the proposal by post , courier or in person to the interested parties who are on the shortlist and request proposals from them after giving them at least thirty days.
( 2) 	The following things should be mentioned in the document related to the proposal as per sub-regulation (1):-
( a) 	Name and address of the company ,
( b) 	the nature of the service to be procured , the period of service to be provided , the place , the terms of service , the work to be performed and the expected result ,
( c) 	instructions to the proposers to prepare proposals ;
( d) 	The technical and financial proposal should be kept in separate envelopes and sealed, and the type of proposal should be clearly mentioned on the outside of each envelope .
( e) 	technical and economic assessment burden ,
( f) 	Basis and weightage for evaluation and comparison of proposals ,
( g) 	Terms of Reference of the Purchase Agreement ,
( h) place 	, date and time for submission of proposal ,
( i) 	Method of selection of proposals ,
( J) 	Information regarding the fact that no action will be taken on the proposal if there is a conflict of interest and the legal action to be taken in case of corruption or fraud ,
( k) 	The provision that the proposer can file an application for review against the error or decision made by the company while taking action related to the proposal ,
( l) 	proposal demand letter ,
( d) The manner in 	which the major manpower proposed by the proposer must have certified that his/her recent personal details are true and complete ,
( d) 	That the financial proposal will be opened only after evaluating the technical proposal ,
( n) 	Pass marks to be obtained by the proposer in the technical proposal ,
( i) 	Whether or not the proposer can propose a separate work plan and manpower for the related work ,
( th) 	Whether or not the proposer can comment on the scope of work ,
( D) 	Other necessary matters.
( 3) 	Any or all of the following grounds for evaluating the technical proposal shall be disclosed as required when mentioning the grounds for evaluating the proposal in accordance with clause (f) of the sub-regulation (1) in the document related to the proposal as per sub-regulation (1).
( a) 	the experience of the consultant in relation to the work to be done by the consultant ;
( b) 	the proposed method of execution of the work by the consultant
Quality of ( methodology) ,
( c) 	Qualification of the proposed main manpower ,
( d) 	Provision of knowledge and technology transfer ,
( e) 	Details of the main Nepalese manpower proposed to carry out the work in case of an international level proposal.
( 4) 	In the document related to the proposal according to sub-regulation (1), when mentioning the method of selecting the proposal according to clause (j) of sub-regulation (1), it should be mentioned which of the following methods will be used for the proposal.
( a) 	Quality and Cost Methodology ,
( b) 	quality method ,
( c) 	fixed budget method , or
( d) 	Low cost method.
( 5) 	Regardless of what is written in sub-regulation (4), the selection of the proposal can be made entirely on the basis of quality method in cases where the nature of the consulting services to be purchased is unusually complex or such services may have a significant impact on the national economy or future projects.
( 6) 	The company should mention the value of the proposal evaluation in the document related to the proposal.
( 7) 	According to sub-regulation (6), the following should be done while mentioning the weightage:
( a) 	If the selection quality and cost method of the proposal is to be adopted, according to the nature and complexity of the work, the total weighting of the technical and financial proposal shall be one hundred and out of such total weighting, the total weighting of the technical proposal shall be seventy to ninety and the weighting of the financial proposal shall be determined such that the weighting shall be from thirty to ten.
( b) If 	the proposal selection quality method , fixed budget method , and low cost method will be adopted, the total weightage of the technical proposal should be determined so that it is 100 points.
( 8) 	The available budget must be disclosed in the proposal when calling for a proposal to select a consultant through a fixed budget method.
( 9) 	When mentioning the number of points for selecting the consultant in the proposal document, the company should mention the appropriate number according to the nature and complexity of the work without exceeding the following number limit:-
( a) 	Specific work experience of the proposer up to ten percent of the total marks ,
( b) 	Effectiveness towards the method of execution of the work and the condition of the field of work up to thirty to fifty percent of the total marks ,
( c) 	The qualification and experience of the main main manpower up to thirty to sixty percent of the total marks ,
( d) 	Technology transfer or training up to ten percent of the total marks ,
( e) 	Participation of indigenous manpower up to ten percent of the total marks.
( 10) 	The weightage mentioned in clause (e) of sub-regulation (9) shall not be applicable in case of national level proposal.
( 11) 	According to sub-regulation (6), while mentioning the marks, the passing marks should also be mentioned.
( 12) 	All the basis of evaluation mentioned in sub-regulation (9) should be divided into 3 sub-basis and the marks for that should also be determined.
❖ 33d. Proposal Opening : ❖
( 1) 	After the deadline for submission of proposals, the outer envelope of the proposal received from the proposer should be opened and the sealed envelopes of the technical and financial proposals should be separated.
( 2) 	Among the envelopes separated according to sub-regulation (1), the technical proposal should be opened first and the financial proposal envelope should be kept separately without opening it.
( 3) 	The envelope of the financial proposal separated according to sub-regulation (1) should be opened only after evaluating the technical proposal.
( 4) 	When the company opens the proposal, it should be opened in the presence of the proposer or his representative. However, the opening of the proposal will not be hindered because the proposer or his representative is not present.
( 5) 	Before opening the proposal according to sub-regulation (1), the company shall separate the envelopes of proposals received before the deadline and the envelopes of duly registered proposals and return the proposals received before the deadline to the respective proposers. The company should disclose the date and time of such return in the report of the procurement process .
( 6) 	After returning the proposal according to sub-regulation (5), the company shall open the outer envelope of the duly registered proposal in sequence, open the envelope of the technical proposal with the envelope, read the following and prepare the deposit:-
( a) 	name and address of the proposer ,
( b) 	Whether the proposal is signed by the proposer ,
( c) 	whether or not the offeror or his representative has signed the corrections or corrections in the documents relating to the offer ,
( d) 	Other necessary things that the company deems appropriate.
( 7) 	In the bond as per sub-regulation (6), the company shall get the signature of the present proposer or his representative.
( 8) 	The company shall send the technical proposal opened as per sub-regulation (7) to the evaluation committee as soon as possible.
❖ 33g. 	Evaluation of Technical Proposal : ❖
( 1) 	Evaluation of the technical proposal shall be done according to the basis of evaluation mentioned in the document related to the proposal.
( 2) 	While evaluating the technical proposal, each member of the evaluation committee shall separately refer to Regulation 33C. The marks obtained by the proposer should be determined by evaluating according to the basis mentioned in sub-regulation (9).
( 3) 	After the marks are determined according to sub-regulation (2), the average marks obtained by the said committee shall be calculated by multiplying the marks provided by each member of the said committee.
( 4) After the evaluation according to 	sub-regulations (1) , ( 2) and (3), the evaluation committee shall, by regulation 33C. A list of the proposers who have received the passing marks as per the by-law (11) should be prepared.
( 5) 	While preparing the list according to sub-regulation (4), it shall be prepared in order starting from the proposer who obtained the highest marks.
( 6) 	The evaluation committee should not open the financial proposal until the evaluation of the technical proposal is completed.
( 7) 	Only the proposers in the list as per sub-regulation (4) Regulation 33J. Financial proposals will be opened accordingly.
( 8) 	The financial proposals of the proposers who are not included in the list as per sub-regulation (4) shall be returned to the respective proposers without opening.
❖ 33ch. Valuation report should be prepared: ❖
( 1) 	The evaluation committee shall prepare an evaluation report after the evaluation process as per regulation 33E.
( 2) 	In the report according to sub-regulation (1), the following things should also be mentioned:-
( a) 	name and address of the proposer ,
( b) 	Whether or not the signature of the proposer or his authorized representative is there ,
( c) 	Whether or not documents have been submitted confirming that the proposer is legally qualified to submit the proposal ,
( d) 	whether or not a joint venture agreement, if necessary, has been submitted ;
( e) 	Whether or not the proposal is complete as per the instructions given to the proposer in the proposal document , and
( f) The relative merits 	, demerits and evaluation results of each proposal .
❖ 33. During evaluation of technical proposal, notice should be given to the selected bidder: ❖
( 1) 	The company is regulated by Regulation 33G. According to the sub-regulation (7) of the proposal, the selected bidders for the purpose of opening the financial proposal shall be notified to attend on that date and time, mentioning the place , date and time of opening the financial proposal.
( 2) 	In accordance with sub-regulation (1), a period of at least seven days in case of national level proposal and at least fifteen days in case of international level proposal shall be given while giving notice to attend.
( 3) 	Proposers who do not receive passing marks must return their financial proposal with a notice that their technical proposal was not selected.
❖ 33j. Opening of Financial Proposal:
( 1) 	Financial proposals should be opened only from the bidders who are qualified through the evaluation of technical proposals.
( 2) 	When the evaluation committee opens the envelope of the financial proposal, it should be opened in the presence of the proposer or his representative. But the opening of the financial proposal will not be hindered because the proposer or his representative is not present.
( 3) 	After opening the envelope of the financial proposal according to sub-regulation (1), the evaluation committee shall read the name of the proposer , the marks obtained by him in the technical proposal and the service fee proposed in the financial proposal and prepare the following bond:-
( a) 	name and address of the proposer ,
( b) 	proposed service charges ,
( c) 	the disposition of any concession offered on the proposed service charges, if any ;
( d) 	If there is a difference between numbers and letters, the details of the difference ,
( e) 	Whether the financial proposal is signed by the proposer or his representative ,
( f) 	If any thing or transaction has been arranged in the financial proposal, whether the proposer or his representative has signed the place and the amount and transaction arranged ,
( g) 	Other necessary things that the company deems appropriate.
❖ 33j. Evaluation of Financial Proposal ❖
( 1) 	Except as otherwise stated in the proposal document, for the purpose of evaluation of the financial proposal, the tax charged to the consultant in accordance with the prevailing law in addition to the value-added tax in the proposal and the consultant's visit, translation of the related document , printing of the report or expenses incurred for the consultation shall be considered included in his service fee. .
( 2) 	When the evaluation committee evaluates the financial proposal of each proposer, if any mathematical error is found in the proposal, the company may correct such error and if the error is corrected, if there is a difference between the unit rate and the total amount, the unit rate shall be valid and the total amount shall be corrected according to the same rate. If the error has been corrected, the information about it should be given to the concerned proposer.
( 3) 	If the amount mentioned by the proposer in the financial proposal is different in numbers and letters, the amount written in letters will be valid.
( 4) 	If it is mentioned in the promissory note that the offeror has proposed to give a discount on the proposed receipt number, the evaluation committee will have to adjust the amount proposed to give the discount.
( 5) After the evaluation as per 	sub-regulations (2) , ( 3) and (4), a list of all the bidders must be prepared.
❖ 33j. Choice of Proposer : ❖
( 1) 	If the quality and cost method is adopted to select the proposal, the evaluation committee will have to jointly evaluate the technical and financial proposal as follows and select the successful bidder:-
( a) 	After multiplying the score of the technical proposal of the bidder to be evaluated by the number allotted for the technical proposal and dividing the product by one hundred, the score of the quotient will be the net score of the technical proposal.
( b) 	Among the proposals that have been successful in the evaluation of the technical proposal, the result obtained by multiplying the lowest acceptance score by the number allocated for the financial proposal and dividing it by the acceptance score of the proposer will be the score of the economic proposal.
( c) 	In the joint evaluation of technical proposal and financial proposal, the proposal with the highest score will be selected.
	Example:
( a) 	Total Marks allotted to Technical Proposal = 80
	Marks obtained in the technical proposal by the bidders A , B , and C securing the prescribed passing marks:-
A = 90
B = 85
c = 80
Based on the above mentioned marks, the method of calculating the marks to be awarded in the technical proposal:-
A =
B =
C =
( a) 	Weightage allocated to financial proposal = 20
The amount accepted by the bidders A , B and C who passed the technical proposal in the financial proposal:
A = 4 , 50 , 000.-
B = 4 , 30 , 000.-
c = 4 , 20 , 000.-
Therefore, the lowest accepted amount = 4 , 20 , 000.-
Based on the above mentioned points, the method of calculating the marks to be given in the financial proposal:-
A = . Gnad. Tut
B =
C =
( e) 	Details of the total marks to be obtained from the combined evaluation of the technical proposal and the financial proposal:-
Proposer 	Net Receipt of Technical Proposal Net Receipt of Financial Proposal
A 	7218.6690.66 Proposer “ A ” with highest aggregate marks Choice to be done 
B 	6819.5387.53	
c 	6420.0084	
( 2) 	If the quality method is adopted to select the proposal, the evaluation committee will have to choose only the proposer who gets the highest score in the technical proposal.
( 3) 	If a fixed budget method is adopted to select the proposal, the evaluation committee will cancel the proposal whose cost exceeds the limit of such budget and shall choose the proposal of the proposer who gets the highest score in the technical proposal within the limit of such budget.
( 4) 	If the lowest cost method is adopted to select the proposal, the evaluation committee shall choose the proposal of the proposal with the lowest cost among the proposers who have obtained the minimum score determined to be successful in the technical proposal.
( 5) 	If there is a need to negotiate with the selected proposer in accordance with this regulation, the company shall notify such proposer of the date , time and place to come and negotiate.
❖ 33. To reject the offer and cancel the procurement process: ❖
( 1) 	In any of the following cases, the company may reject the entire proposal or cancel the procurement process:-
( a) 	If all proposals received are not substantially effective as per the terms of reference ,
( b) 	If the selected bidder's cost is materially higher than the cost estimate and available budget ,
( c) 	if counseling services are not required , or
( d) 	If it is proved that the offerors made the offer by mutual agreement. But action can be taken on the proposal of the proposer who has not agreed.
❖ 33th. 	Negotiation with the proposer:
( 1) 	Regulation 33j. It will be possible to negotiate with the proposer who has been selected according to the scope of work and the scope of the proposed service , the progress report , the facilities to be provided by the company.
( 2) 	Bylaw 33J. Except in the case of sub-regulation (2) of the financial proposal, there can be no negotiation regarding the remuneration of the professionals.
	However , it will be possible to negotiate about the expenses of the nature of the inquiry.
( 3) 	If an agreement that is acceptable to both the company and the proposer cannot be reached during the negotiation in accordance with this regulation, the company shall refer to regulation 33j. In the case of proposals under sub-regulations (1) , ( 2) and (3), the next highest scorer and in the case of proposals under sub-regulation (4) with the lowest cost should be discussed with the next proposer.
❖ 34. 	Purchase Agreement for Consulting Services: ❖
( 1) 	Regulation 33. The proposal of the proposer who reached an agreement in the negotiation as per the following will be done for approval.
( 2) 	In accordance with sub-regulation (1), within seven days of the proposal, the company shall give notice of its intention to accept the selected proposal to the relevant proposer and to the other proposed proposers in the list.
( 3) 	If any proposer does not make any application for review within seven days of giving notice as per sub-regulation (2), the proposal of the selected proposer as per sub-regulation (1) shall be accepted and he shall be given a period of fifteen days to come to an agreement.
( 4) 	If he is present to make the contract within the period as per sub-regulation (3), he should enter into the purchase contract as per regulation 40. But if he is not present to sign the contract, the company will be required to comply with Regulation 33J. In the case of sub-regulation (1) , ( 2) and (3) of the proponent, the next highest scorer and in the case of sub-regulation (4) with the lowest cost should be negotiated with the next proponent according to Regulation 40.
★ 34a. Taking other services:
 ❖ ( 1) 	In case of purchasing other services that are necessary for the daily operations of the company, the office may purchase such services from any person , firm , organization or company. The need , type , time period , quality , method of service operation , estimated expenses and working area conditions for such service should be prepared and approved by the concerned authority and purchased as follows:-
☑ ( a) 	Up to five lakh rupees at a time through negotiation , ☑
		But for business promotion work, if the work of more than five lakh rupees has to be purchased through negotiations, it can be done with the approval of the committee .
☑ ( b) 	from sealed bond up to fifty lakh rupees at a time ,
☑ ( c) 	Any amount above the amount mentioned in Clause (b) from the tender.
( 2) 	When entering into a contract according to sub-regulation (1), details of the goods or services to be leased, quality , price , duration of the contract , damages and compensation , condition of renewal of the contract and condition of termination of the contract , conditions of payment and other necessary conditions must be clearly mentioned.
❖ ( 3) 	When calling for quotations or bids, technical and financial proposals can be arranged according to the need and in this way, when calling for proposals, the evaluation basis and weighting should also be clearly disclosed.
❖ ( 4) 	When evaluating the proposal according to sub-regulation (3), the company shall accept the offeror's proposal to offer a reduced service fee and enter into a contract.
		However , in the case of bids or bids that are called for by asking for technical and financial proposals, the bidder who gets the highest score after evaluating the financial and technical proposals and jointly evaluating them will be selected.
❖ ( 5) 	According to sub-regulation (4), if the proposer of the accepted proposal offering a reduced service fee does not come to enter into a service contract, then the contract shall be made with the proposer who offers the lowest service fee.
❖ ( 6) 	When the head of the office has to carry out the maintenance of the consumable goods, he should carry out the maintenance by the skilled staff or related experts and if not, by the related person , firm or organization, the maintenance should be carried out by estimating the cost.
❖ ( 7) 	If there is a repair facility in your workshop, spare parts should be purchased and registered . In case of repair by others, the necessary spare parts should be verified by the relevant technician and the expenses should be recorded and the items changed during the repair should be recorded in a separate account and filed in the warehouse.
❖ ( 8) 	If the equipment used in the company is of a proprietary nature as per Regulation 27 and needs to be sent to the respective manufacturer for repair, if there is an agreement on the purchase of such equipment, the equipment can be repaired as mentioned in the agreement and if not, the equipment can be repaired by quotation or negotiation. ❖
 
Paragraph – 6
Bidding Procedure
35. 	Bidding related document preparation , notification and receipt of bids:
( Know) Before inviting bids, documents related to bids (specifications) should be prepared5. In this way, while preparing the documents related to the bid, a work schedule should also be made so that the work is completed according to the program as frugality as possible5. In relation to determining the scope , level , method of distribution and other conditions of work mentioned in the said documents (specification), the central office is the Deputy Managing Director of Planning Department , Finance Department , Development Department and Maintenance and Operation Department for procurement work , concerned The purpose of the plan and the specifications specified by the managing director should not be approved by the review committee and in the case of procurement work done by the directorate or under it, the technical branch of the directorate or department should not be contrary to the specifications approved at the central level . B , department or branch related to procurement , accounting department and special specifications related to the work designated by the director should not be approved by the review committee . In order to maintain uniformity in the tenders, the tender templates of different types of work should be approved and maintained5. ★
❖ 1a. 	Before inviting bids, the company must prepare the documents related to the bids. The following things should be mentioned in the document related to such bid: - ❖
( a) 	Nature of procurement , time period for procurement and technical specifications thereof ,
( b) 	If the bid is invited without prior determination of qualification, the grounds of qualification of the bidder as per Regulation 23E ,
( c) 	Information regarding the provision of on-site inspection ,
( d) 	If any meeting is to be held before submission of bids, information regarding such meeting ,
( e) 	instructions for preparation and submission of tenders , place of submission of tenders , last date and time of submission of tenders and date , time and place of opening of tenders ,
( f) 	the price structure (component of price) , the currency or currencies that may be quoted for bids , the currency used to compare bids and the basis of the associated exchange rate and the date thereof ,
( g) 	Basis and manner of evaluation of tenders and selection of tenderers ,
( h) 	If priority is given to indigenous goods and local builders, the related provisions ,
( i) 	If the goods or construction works are to be purchased in separate groups and packages, such groups and packages and the method of evaluation thereof ,
( j) 	The method of evaluating such alternative in case of demand including the proposal of technical specification alternative ,
( k) 	Details of such part or parts if tenders can be submitted only for any part of the goods , construction work or service to be purchased ,
( l) 	Bid validity period ,
( d) the amount 	, type , valid form and valid period of security to be given for bid , performance or other essentials;
( Validity Period) ,
( D) 	In case of bid security, the period of the security should be thirty days more than the period of acceptance of the bid .
( n) 	the terms and conditions of the purchase agreement as per Regulation 40 and the manner in which the agreement is enforced ,
( i) 	Information regarding legal action to be taken in case of conflict of interest (conflict of interest ) or legal action to be taken in case of fraud or corruption ,
( th) 	The provision that the bidder can file an application for review against the error or decision made by the company while taking action related to the bid .
( d) 	Document proving technical capability and financial proposal (bid) should be submitted in one envelope , and
( D) 	Subjects determined by the Public Procurement Monitoring Office to be mentioned in pre-qualification or tender related documents.
☑ ( No) ☑ 	Same in the tender one or so than more Bidder or To the proposers East by merit Choice done or without city section In the section work to make end If so so thing .
( 2) 	The bidding person , firm , or organization shall pay the following amount and purchase a bid form from the office concerned with the signature of the head of the office or the employee designated by him and the seal of the office, and the general and special conditions of the purchase agreement and the work schedule shall also be attached to such bid form . Should be. The tender form purchased in the name of one person , firm or organization cannot be filed in the name of another person , firm or organization. The main conditions and special conditions to be followed by the builder while constructing or installing or providing services or receiving goods should also be mentioned in the tender form. The bid documents shall be sold for the following fees:
( a) 	One thousand rupees for bids up to fifty lakh rupees ,
❖ ( b) 	Two thousand rupees for bids exceeding fifty lakhs up to one crore rupees ,
❖ ( c) 	Five thousand rupees for bids above one crore and up to five crores and ❖
❖ ( d) 	For bids above five crore rupees, a minimum of Rs. Ten thousand or Rs. The amount fixed by the Managing Director not to exceed one lakh.
If the notice of the bid is published on the company's website or other approved website and arrangements are made to download all the documents related to the bid from the website, then the above-mentioned fee can be paid by the bidder in cash at the time of submitting the bid. If the bid form is downloaded from the website and submitted without purchasing the bid issued by the company, the bidder should clearly mention such behavior in the bid envelope.
( 3) 	The details of the sale of the bid form and the registration of the bid should be mentioned in a separate book. After the time of bid sale and registration is over, the head of the office or the authorized employee designated by him should sign and close the said book. The bid sale amount should be deposited in the bank.
❖ ( 4) ❖ 	Tender demand while National level daily in the newspaper and of the company on the website of the following things the opening Bid of challenge Notice publication do will fall .
( a) 	Manner of sending tenders ,
( b) 	Name and address of the office where tenders are invited and received ,
( c) 	Fees for submission of tenders , last date and time for submission of tenders ,
( d) 	the nature and time limit of procurement , the place where goods are to be supplied , services are to be rendered or construction work is to be carried out ,
( e) 	Contingency of construction work and estimated cost figure excluding value added tax ,
( f) 	date , time and place of opening of bids ,
( g) Conditions including 	type , amount and validity period in case of bank guarantee ,
( h) 	Subjects to be submitted by the bidder in the form attached to the bid form including his rate analysis ,
( i) Qualification 	, economic status , technical experience and experience of efficiency of the bidders who are eligible to participate in the bidding ,
( j) 	If there is a difference between numbers and letters, the matter of recognizing what is written in letters , and
( k) 	Other necessary matters related to the tender.
	❖ ( 5) ❖ 	Tender related to Document and Bid to be found of the office the name Kitan while Two or so than more in the office including Bid Purchase to do get and Bid submission to do or to send location When opened the same in the office only submission to do or to send arrangement will have to .
Explanation: For the purpose of this sub-exchange, “ the same office " That is to say Nepal remote world Company Limited under are It will refer to departments , directorates and telecommunication offices.
  ❖ 	( 6) 	When publishing the notice of tender, a period of at least thirty days shall be given in the case of notice of national level tender invitation and at least forty five days in case of notice of international tender invitation.
  ❖ 	( 7) 	The promissory note shall be opened at the place , date and time specified in the notice of the promissory note in the office of the promissory note holder or his representative, and all signatures shall be made on the promissory note. Even if the bidder or his representative is not present, the bids will be opened at the appointed place , date and time.
	( 8) 	Those who do not have value added tax and income tax registration certificate should not be accepted. However , this arrangement will not apply when calling for an international tender.
  ❖ 	( 9) 	The person issuing the promissory note shall submit the cash guarantee or bank guarantee (Widebond) as per sub-exchange (10) along with the promissory note. If the promissory note is accepted, the purchase price of the purchase contract for lease will be five percent in the case of construction and maintenance and ten percent in the case of purchase, or a bank guarantee (performance bond) will have to be submitted. In this way, when taking a bank guarantee, only the guarantee (performance bond) will be recognized with the condition that the bank will pay immediately when requested by the concerned office and the guarantee will be valid for the duration of the terms of the purchase agreement. In the event that the bank guarantee is not available for the duration of the purchase agreement, the bank guarantee can be taken by arranging for renewal every year. Cash guarantee cannot be changed to bank guarantee later. Regarding the foreign bank guarantee, only those who have counter guaranteed by the Nepalese bank will be recognized.
★❖ ( 10) 	For the guarantee to be submitted according to this regulation, the amount which will be two and a half percent of the cost estimate, and the upper five hundred or thousand digits of the amount shall be published . If the cost estimate cannot be disclosed, the amount equal to two and a half percent of the total number should be disclosed in the notification regarding the transaction promissory note. Cash guarantee or bank guarantee of such amount should be filed separately with each promissory note. After the acceptance of the promissory note, it should be disclosed in the notification regarding the promissory note that the performance bond or cash guarantee of the amount of 5% in the case of construction and 10% in the case of purchase will have to be filed. ★ ❖
			However , if there is no cost estimate or if it is not appropriate to disclose the cost estimate, there will be no obstacle to arrange for keeping an amount equal to two and a half percent of the balance sheet.
  ❖ 	( 11) 	.............................................. ..............................
  ☑ 	( 12) 	According to the terms of the contract, up to a maximum of 20 percent of the approved amount can be given to the construction manager or consultant or service provider by taking a bank guarantee.
	( 13) 	When paying the salary according to this regulation, the payment should be made only after deducting the taxes to be deducted according to the prevailing law.
  ❖ 	( 14) If 	the bidder or the proposer wishes to withdraw or amend the bid or consultancy service proposal submitted by him, he shall seal the application in an envelope and submit the following to the relevant office within the last date and time for submission of bids : – ❖ ☑
		( a) 	subject to tender or offer of consultancy services ,
		( b) 	the name and address of the office or officer inviting bids or proposals for consultancy services ,
		( c) 	Subject to amendment or withdrawal of bids or proposals for consultancy services , and
		( d) 	Businesses to be opened only on the day and time of opening of bids or proposals for consulting services.
	( 15) 	If the bond amount collected in accordance with this regulation is received in the form of a bond and performance bond, then the record should be kept and control over the payment and if it is deposited in the form of cash, the amount should be deposited in the bank account and a report should be prepared.
	( 16) 	In case of artificial competition, if a bid is given together or revised, the bid of the conciliator may be canceled and the bond confiscated and such person or firm or company or organization may be included in the black list.
	( 17) 	Anyone can file a complaint with proof that they have put together bids. If the complaint is found to be true by the investigation, it will be as per sub-regulation (18).
	( 18) 	Even after the agreement has been reached and the purchase agreement has started, if it is revealed that the buyer has been deprived of competition by giving financial incentives or using force, the purchase agreement will be canceled and the bond and other funds will be confiscated.
	( 19) 	If anyone prevents other competitors from submitting bids in any way for the purpose of obtaining a purchase contract, the bids submitted by them may be canceled and the bond amount may be confiscated.
	( 20) 	Actions as per sub-regulations (16) and (17) will be done by the sub-committee of the relevant subject formed by the committee.
	( 21) 	The Company reserves the right to accept or reject any bid.
❖ 35a. Two Phase Bidding: ❖
	( 1) 	Tenders may be invited in two stages in the following cases:-
		( a) 	the technical aspects of the goods or works or services to be procured or the terms of the purchase agreement cannot be fully ascertained at the time of invitation of tenders , or
		( b) If the nature of the goods 	, construction works or services to be procured is complicated, the company should discuss with the bidders about the various technical aspects or how the problems related to the purchase contract can be solved and the technical aspects and conditions of the contract and the benefits arising from it.
	( 2) 	When calling for the first round of bids in accordance with this section, the purpose of the procurement , the expected performance , rough specifications , other rough features , the qualifications of the bidder should be mentioned in the bid documents, and the bidder should not disclose the price in the bid , only comments regarding the technical proposal and the terms of the proposed purchase agreement. The things to be submitted should be mentioned.
	( 3) 	The company may discuss with any or all of the bidders regarding the bids received in accordance with sub-regulation (2).
	( 4) 	In relation to the bids received in accordance with sub-regulation (2), the company may do as follows, considering the discussion as per sub-regulation (3):
		( a) 	unable to fulfill the basic requirements (basic requirement) to be fulfilled in connection with the purchase or to perform the minimum performance or to complete the work within the prescribed period or to fulfill such conditions or to complete the work or to complete the work within the prescribed period or any other To cancel the proposal related to the tender which is not valid due to weakness ,
		( b) 	to modify or amend technical specifications , basis of evaluation and terms of purchase agreements to enhance competition ;
		( c) 	To determine the evaluation method to determine the suitability of the various options submitted by the bidders.
	( 5) 	After the completion of the work according to sub-regulation (4), the company shall call for bids in the second stage. At the time of inviting such bids, the bidders whose bids have not been canceled according to the said by-laws shall be invited to submit the bids with the prices in accordance with the documents related to the revised bids.
	( 6) 	Apart from what is written in this regulation, the second stage bidding process to be done according to sub-regulation (5) shall be done in accordance with the provisions of this regulation.
36. 	Duties of the Bid Accepting Officer:
	( 1) 	The duties of the bid accepting officer shall be as follows:-
		( a) 	Bids that have not been submitted in accordance with Regulation 39 shall not be accepted.
		( b) 	Out of the bids submitted in accordance with this regulation, the minimum evaluated bid that meets the evaluation criteria specified in this regulation shall be accepted.
			 ★ Clarification:
			" Minimum Evaluated Bid " That is to say stuff Purchase public In relation to construction , repair and transportation, except for the types of tenders that should not be processed according to sub-regulation (1) of regulation 39, other tenders that require the minimum amount after meeting the evaluation criteria specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 36 and sub-regulations of regulation 36 regarding the purchase and installation of goods. According to (3) among the responsive bids, the bid that receives the minimum amount should be considered.
		❖ ( c) 		Tenders cannot be rejected or re-invited just because some tenders or only one tender is substantially responsive.
		❖ ( d) 	In accordance with clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), the notice of the rejection of the bid or the cancellation of the procurement process shall be given to all the bidders.
		❖ ( e) 	When no bids are received or all bids are rejected or the procurement process is canceled and re-bidding is called, the reasons for the rejection of the bids or the cancellation of the procurement process are reviewed and as necessary, the documents related to the tender, technical specifications, cost estimates and the conditions of the procurement contract are modified as necessary . will have to do.
		❖ ( f) 	.............................................. ......................
		❖ ( s) 	.............................................. ......................
 		( h) 	After the opening of the bids received, such bids must be accepted within the same period as the deadline for submitting the bids. If the bid cannot be accepted within that period, the reason should be disclosed to the officer one level above and such bid should be accepted.
  ❖ 	( 2) ❖ 	Any goods Purchase Construction and When calling for tenders for connection , repair and transportation works, technical and financial proposals should be evaluated and procured in one envelope. In this way, while calling for tenders, the basis of evaluation of the following technical aspects should be clearly disclosed in the tender documents according to the nature and requirements of the work:
		( a) 	Experience required for the proposed work ,
		( b) 	Requirements , efficiency and qualifications of the proposed manpower ,
		( c) 	Necessary technical goods and equipment ,
		( d) 	Necessary details of the financial situation such as: minimum turnover , working capital , net worth , borrowing capacity , etc.
		( e) 	Construction , maintenance or transportation schedule , each of the above-mentioned bases should be approved before issuing the tender notice by giving weightage to each of the above mentioned points according to the nature of the work. Bidders who do not get even the minimum marks should not be accepted. Prequalification is not required for construction , repair or transportation through this process.
	( 3) 	During the purchase of goods or connection work, the commercial and technical proposals mentioned in the tender form should be clearly disclosed in the tender document, which points of difference will be considered as minor deviations and if there are differences in which points will be considered as major deviations. And the bid without any major deviation should be considered as a suitable (substantially responsive) bid and evaluated financially.
	( 4) 	If there is a difference between numbers and letters in the bidder's financial proposal, the letters must be recognized. ❖ 
  ❖ 	( 5) 	If any mathematical error is found in the bid during the examination of the bid according to this regulation, the company may correct such error and if there is a difference between the unit rate and the total amount after correcting the error, the unit rate shall be valid and the total amount shall be corrected according to the same rate.
❖ 36a. Bid Examination: ❖
	( 1) 	The company shall submit the bids opened according to regulation 38 to the evaluation committee.
	( 2) 	Before evaluating the bids submitted as per sub-regulation (1), the said committee shall examine the bids to determine the following points:
		( a) 	Whether the documents confirming that the bidder is legally qualified to submit the bid have been submitted or not ,
		( b) 	whether or not the bid has been completed in accordance with the instructions given to the bidder in the documents related to the bid and whether or not the bid has been duly stamped by the bidder or his authorized representative ,
		( c) If a security is to be submitted with the bid, whether 	or not the security of the type , duration and amount mentioned in the documents related to the bid is attached .
		( d) 	Whether or not the tender is substantially in accordance with the technical specifications mentioned in the tender documents and the conditions of the purchase agreement attached to the said documents.
	( 3) 	In accordance with clause (b) of sub-regulation (2), while testing the completeness of the bid, the following things should be tested:
		( a) 	Whether or not the authorization document given to the authorized representative or local agent of the bidder has been submitted ,
		( b) 	whether or not a joint venture agreement, if necessary, has been submitted ;
		( c) 	whether the documents proving the eligibility of the bidder and the goods mentioned by him have been submitted or not ,
		( d) 	Whether the necessary documents related to the bidder's qualifications have been submitted or not ,
		( e) 	If a rate analysis is required to be submitted according to the documents related to the bid, whether such rate analysis has been submitted or not ,
		( f) 	Other necessary things.
	( 4) 	The company may request the necessary information from the bidder in order to test the bid according to this regulation.
	( 5) 	The relevant bidder shall provide the company with the information requested by the company in accordance with sub-regulation (4) and the price of the bid or other essentials cannot be changed or manipulated by providing such information.
	( 6) 	When pre-qualification is determined and the bids called for are tested, whether the bidder's qualifications are in accordance with the pre-qualification or not should be tested.
	( 7) 	According to the sub-regulation (6), if it is found that the qualifications of the pre-qualifiers are substantially reduced during the qualification test, the tender of such bidder shall be cancelled.
	( 8) 	If any mathematical error is found in the bid during the examination of the bid according to this regulation, the company may correct such error and if there is a difference between the unit rate and the total amount after correcting the error, the unit rate shall be valid and the total amount shall be corrected according to the same rate.
	( 9) 	If the unit rate amount mentioned by the bidder in the bid is different in numbers and letters, the amount written in letters will be valid.
	( 10) 	If the error has been corrected according to sub-regulation (8) or (9), the relevant bidder should be given the information that the error has been corrected.
❖ 36b. International level bidding: ❖
	( 1) 	When inviting tenders according to this regulation, international level tenders shall be invited in the following cases:
		( a) 	If the goods or construction works in accordance with the company's demand are not obtained from more than one builder or supplier within the state of Nepal at a competitive price ,
		( b) If tenders are invited at the national level for the purchase of 	goods , construction works or other services, if no tenders are received from abroad ,
		( c) 	In case of purchase of foreign goods or construction works from foreign aid sources according to the agreement with the donor party ,
		( d) 	For the company certifying that it has to be procured through international level bidding as it is a special and complex type of goods or construction work.
	( 2) 	The notice of the international tender invitation according to this exchange shall be published in English language and all documents related to tender or pre-qualification shall be provided in English language.
	( 3) 	The notice as per sub-regulation (2) shall be placed on the company's website.
 
37. Things to be disclosed by foreigners when bidding:
			When a foreign person , firm or organization makes a bid, including an international bid, such person , firm or organization must also mention the following things in the bid:
	( 1) 	Whether or not any agent or representative has been appointed within the state of Nepal.
	( 2) 	If an agent or representative has been appointed ,
		( a) 	the name and address of the agent or representative ,
		( b) the amount 	, currency and mode of payment of the commission to be received by the agent or representative ;
		( c) 	any stipulation with agents and representatives ,
		( d) 	Income tax registration certificate of the local agent and letter accepting to be an agent.
	( 3) 	If the agent is not appointed ,
		( a) Evidence of 	deposit transfer , handover and exchange of foreign currency to be filed with the bid ;
		( b) 	If the bank account of any Nepali was used while exchanging the foreign currency, the name , address of such person and proof of the bank if the exchange was made by myself .
38. 	At the time of opening the bids, it should be stamped:
	According to the notice under sub-regulation (4) of Regulation 35, the bids received must be signed by all the bidders or representatives who will be present on the date and time specified in the notice. However, even if the bidder or representative is not present, the opening of bids will not be hindered.
 
 39. 	There will be no action on the bid:
	( 1) 	Tenders that are not submitted in the following manner will not be processed:
		( a) 	Bids that have not been filled in the bid form sold from the concerned office or that have not been paid the prescribed fee if the bid has been downloaded from the website ,
		( b) 	unsealed ,
		( c) 	If the bidder or his authorized representative has not stamped the documents related to the bid ,
		( d) 	Failure to file within the deadline ,
		( e) 	not accompanied by security of the type , duration and amount mentioned in the notice of invitation to tender ,
	    ❖ 	( f) ❖ 	Joint Undertaking ( joint venture ) . work to do The construction business has not submitted a certified copy of the joint venture agreement .
		( g) 	If it is specified in the tender invitation notice that the rate analysis is to be submitted, it is not submitted accordingly ,
		( h) 	The rate of each item in the bill of quantity of the construction work is not filled in ,
		( i) 	Failure to fill in the rate of each item in the Bill of Quantity of the main goods while bidding for telecommunication equipment ,
	    ❖ 	( j1) 	Withdrawn bids , sub-regulation (17) of regulation 35 and
( 18) Bids submitted by collusion and using force , bids rejected as per regulation 44.
		( j) 	Failure to fulfill other conditions specified in the tender invitation notice.
	( 2) 	At the opening of the bids, if any bidder's bid is not clearly marked with letters or numbers , is not correct in Kermet, or is in doubt for evaluation due to any other reason, the same shall be mentioned in the bond and confirmed by all present.
	( 3) 	If there is a difference between the unit price rate of a unit and the total price of that unit in the bid, the unit price rate of the said unit shall be recognized.
	( 4) 	If there is a difference between the unit (V.O.Q.) and the price rate and total price mentioned in the hard copy and soft copy of the bid submitted by the bidder, the unit (V.O.Q.) mentioned in the hard copy and the price rate and total price shall be recognized.
❖ 39.A. Rejection of bids or cancellation of procurement proceedings: ❖
	( 1) 	The company may reject the entire bid or cancel the procurement process in any of the following cases:
		☎ ( a) 	Any tender Regulation 36 a. If it is not substantially effective as per ☎
		( b) 	if the minimum estimated substantially effective bid is substantially higher than the cost estimate ,
		( c) 	If the requested goods , construction work , consulting services or other services are not necessary.
❖ 40. Acceptance of bids and purchase agreement:
	( 1) 	After the bid has been accepted in accordance with this regulation, the relevant office shall notify the relevant person , firm or organization within three days.
☑❖ ( 2) 	The company should select only the lowest evaluated bid among the substantially responsive bids for approval. Within seven days after the selection of the bid, the company shall notify the concerned bidder of its intention to accept the bid. The name , address and amount of the bidder of the selected bid should also be given to other bidders. ❖ ☑ 
  ❖ 	( 3) 	Within the period of seven days after giving the notice as per sub-regulation (1), except in the case where any bidder has submitted an application for review, the bid of the selected bidder as per sub-regulation (1) shall be accepted and he shall be notified within fifteen days to file the performance bond for entering into the purchase agreement. . Within that period, the concerned bidder must submit a performance bond and enter into a purchase agreement.
		If the bidder does not come to the contract after filing the performance guarantee within the said period, the security amount of his bid will be confiscated and immediately after that, the bid of the lowest evaluated bidder will be accepted and the purchase contract will be concluded. If the bidder does not come to enter into the purchase agreement after submitting the performance bond, the bids of the lowest evaluated bidders will be accepted gradually and notified to enter into the purchase agreement according to this regulation.
  ❖ 	( 3.a) 	If a bidder whose bid has been rejected within thirty days of giving the notice as per sub-regulation (1) requests information on the reason why his bid has been rejected, the relevant office shall provide such information to him.
  ★ 	( 4) ★ 	The amount deposited by the bidder as per sub-regulation (9) of Regulation 35 shall not be returned until the completion of the purchase agreement in accordance with this regulation .
		But if there is a need to ask for bids again, it will not be a hindrance to refund the security deposit of other than the first three bidders who bid the minimum bid mentioned in sub-regulation (3).
  ❖ 	( 5) ❖ 	Tender Acknowledgment after this In the regulations Mention done other of things extra Purchase In agreement Bid related to The conditions mentioned in the document , proposal related document or the form related to the sealed bid must also be included and such conditions may be as follows according to the nature of the contract:
		( a) 	Names and addresses , telephone numbers , fax numbers and contact persons for the execution of the contract of the parties to the purchase agreement ,
		( b) 	Scope of the Purchase Agreement ,
		( c) 	details and order of priority of the documents in the purchase agreement ,
		( d) 	work schedule ,
		( e) 	time of supply , time for performance or non-extendability ,
		( f) 	the amount of the purchase agreement or the method of determining the same ,
		( g) the conditions under which 	goods , works or services are accepted ;
		( h) 	terms and methods of payment including advance payment , payment of foreign currency ,
		( i) 	Circumstances beyond control (Force Majeure) ,
		( j) 	Arrangements for price adjustments, if any .
		( k) 	Arrangements for the issuance of purchase agreement amendment and variation orders, if any ,
		( l) 	If insurance is required, arrangements for the same ,
		( d) 	Security required ,
		( d) 	Pre-determined compensation (liquidated damages) for failure to perform the work within the stipulated period ,
		( n) 	Arrangements regarding bonus to be given if the work is completed before the stipulated period ,
		( i) 	Provision for cancellation of purchase agreement ,
		( th) 	Arrangements for sub-contracting or non-sub-contracting ,
		( d) 	dispute resolution mechanism ,
		( d) 	applicable law , and
		( N) 	other necessary things.
  ❖ 	( 6) ❖ 	Work The purchase agreement can be amended without increasing the financial burden, unless otherwise provided in the purchase agreement with the written consent of both parties without changing the basic nature or area such as quality, capacity, quantity, technical characteristics and country of origin .
			But according to exchange 42 price adjustment (price adjustment) or exchange 42A. When issuing a variation order, there is no need to amend the purchase agreement.
  ❖ 	( 6a) 	After the completion of the purchase agreement, the notice with the results of the tender or consulting service evaluation should be posted on the company's website and on the notice board.
41. 	To be insured:
	( 1) 	In the purchase contract of more than one million rupees, within seven days of signing the contract, the construction business shall submit to the office the proof of insurance for the following risks, which shall be applicable from the date of commencement of the purchase contract until the maintenance period. The insurance rate of such insurance will be as mentioned in the tender form.
		( a) 	possible damage or loss of structure , materials and machinery ,
		( b) 	possible damage or loss of equipment ,
		( c) 	Damage or loss to other property arising out of the purchase agreement ,
		( d) 	personal bodily injury , dismemberment or death of workers ,
		( e) 	Third party risk.
	( 2) 	The conditions of insurance cannot be changed without the approval of the authorized officer.
❖ 42. Price adjustment in purchase agreement : ❖
	( 1) 	Except as otherwise provided in the purchase agreement, if it is necessary to adjust the price during the execution of the purchase agreement for a period of more than fifteen months, the authorized officer may adjust the price. In this way, the arrangement that the price can be adjusted or not should be clearly disclosed in the bidding documents and the purchase agreement.
			However, if the price of any construction material unexpectedly decreases by ten percent of the previous price, no adjustment will be made in the price when the national level bids have been called and the purchase agreement has been signed. If the price of any construction material unexpectedly decreases by more than ten percent of the original price, the price will be adjusted only at the rate of more than ten percent.
	( 2) 	Notwithstanding anything written in sub-regulation (1), due to the delay of the person receiving the purchase contract, price adjustment if the work as per the contract is not completed within the period mentioned in the contract or takes more time or if the purchase contract is based on a lump sum contract or a fixed budget Can't be done.
	( 3) 	The maximum amount of price adjustment to be made in accordance with this regulation shall normally exceed twenty five percent of the original contract price
no If the amount of price adjustment exceeds that price, the company may terminate the purchase agreement , negotiate with builders , suppliers , service providers or consultants to bring the contract price within the approved budget, or adopt other measures to reduce costs.
❖ 42.A. Variation Order: ❖
  ✆ 	( 1) ✆ 	Purchase In agreement Otherwise arrangement for being Except Purchase Agreement of the during Forecast to do unfinished situation so Agreement of execution in order If it is necessary to increase , decrease or add or replace new items due to technical reasons, the managing director shall disclose the clear reason , in case of variation of up to fifteen percent and more, the relevant deputy managing director designated by the company's development , maintenance , finance and managing director. On the recommendation of the existing committee, a variation order can be issued according to the decision of the committee.
	( 2) 	When issuing an order according to sub-regulation (1), it should be issued as follows:
		( a) 	To be done in such a way that the basic nature or area of the work concerned does not change and
		( b) 	There should be a budget arrangement.
	( 3) 	Variation orders should not be issued in such a way that the rate is higher than the rate mentioned in the purchase agreement. If a variation order has to be issued with a higher rate, the rate of the item should also be analyzed and approved by an officer one level above.
	( 4) 	If a new item needs to be added to the construction work as per the purchase agreement, the company shall also analyze the rate of such new item and determine the rate.
	( 5) 	When issuing a variation order in accordance with this regulation, the nature of the variation , large items , small items , whether or not the deadline should be extended and if so, how many days should be given , the rate of the variation item is lower than the rate of the item in the bill of quantity , what percentage of the total contract price is the updated change. , from where and how to raise additional funds for the work to be done according to the variation order , and what percentage of the initial contract price the total amount after the variation order should be clearly disclosed.
	( 6) 	If there is a lack of time or emergency work needs to be done immediately, the office may proceed with the variation work after taking prior approval from the higher authority.
	( 7) 	When calculating additional new works not included in the contract, the initial cost estimate and the approved contract price will be reduced by the same percentage as the cost of additional new works will be reduced to the estimated amount and paid. If the approved contract price is more than the initial cost estimate amount, the cost of additional new work will be paid so that it does not exceed the estimated amount. For example: In the case where the initial cost estimate is Rs.1 lakh and the contract price is Rs.90 thousand, the approved contract price is less than the initial cost estimate by 10 percent. In such a case, if the estimated cost of additional new work is Rs. If it comes to 10,000, the amount will be reduced by 10 percent and the remaining amount will be paid to Rs.9,000. But if the contract price is Rs. 1 lakh 10 thousand, for additional work, Rs. 10,000 will have to be paid.
43. 	Technician's Responsibilities:
	According to this regulation, the responsibility of the technical staff appointed by the head of the office to prepare the cost estimate of the construction and connection work , check and supervise whether the quality work is done according to the approved drawing , design and specification.
44. 	Not to be influenced or subjected to undue influence:
	If any bidder tries to exert any kind of undue influence or pressure on his or anyone else's bid, the bid of such bidder may be rejected and if the bid is rejected in this way, the record shall be kept or caused to be kept. Also, if the employee involved in the bid evaluation and decision-making process is found to be under such influence, departmental action will be taken against such employee.
45. 	Submission of work completed report:
	After the completion of the construction and connection work, the office shall submit the completed report as follows.
	( 1) 	After the completion of the construction and installation work according to the approved cost estimate, the head of the office shall have the technical staff examine whether the work is of quality according to the prescribed drawing , design and specification and prepare a report on the completion of the work. If the head of the office deems it necessary, he can personally investigate whether the work mentioned in the report has been done or appoint a technical staff or a team of technical staff to carry out such investigation. Within four months of the completion of the work, the completed report must be submitted to the tender approval authority.
			However , if the officer who commissioned the work and the officer who approved the bid are the same, they should be submitted to the agency one level above.
	( 2) 	Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (a), Rs. After the completion of construction and installation work up to ten lakh rupees, such work shall be approved by the chief technician of the office or by the technical staff mentioned in regulation 43 . The technical staff mentioned in Regulation 43 will be responsible for the work approved in this way. The head of the office should give the information about the completion of the work to the higher body.
	( 3) 	After the work completion report is approved, the construction contractor should be given a work completion certificate.
  ❖ 	( 4) ❖ 	Connection and Construction work completed after Bid and In the contract Mention happened according to Construction and Connection of action check pass Report ( acceptance Certificate ) prepared do will fall . of the tender Specification ready Do not conduct inspection pass work by the people involved in doing , evaluating or connecting work. However, there is no obstacle to involve one person from among the people involved in the above tasks in terms of expertise in the inspection team consisting of three or more members.
46. 	Monitoring the progress of the purchase agreement:
	( 1) 	When making a purchase agreement, the program and work schedule must be attached to the agreement. The head of the office or the head of the project should constantly monitor whether the work has been done by the construction contractor according to the work schedule or according to the terms of the purchase agreement. Arrangements should be made to submit the results of the monitoring of the work of the procurement contract of projects worth more than Rs.20 lakhs to the head of the office on a quarterly basis.
	( 2) 	The official of the level at which the bid was accepted shall monitor whether the work has been carried out according to the work schedule and acknowledgments mentioned in the bid approved by Mr. M and submit a quarterly report to the officer one level above . The officer receiving the report can study the report and give necessary instructions.
47. 	To extend the deadline:
  ☎ ( 1) ☎ 	this Regulations according to having been If the supplier , builder , consultant or service provider is unable to complete the work within the period specified in the lease contract due to any unforeseen circumstances, he/she must submit an application for an extension to the relevant office 30 days before the end of the period in which the work must be completed.
  ☎ ( 2) 	Due to special circumstances or due to the company not being able to fulfill its obligations, applying for an extension in accordance with sub-regulation (1) or due to the office not being able to supply the goods , construction materials or services, if it is found that the work cannot be completed within the period specified in the purchase agreement After investigating how much of the work to be done has been completed and how much is left, the reason for extending the deadline should be mentioned in detail and the following officer can extend the deadline as follows:
	   ❖ 	( a) ❖ 	of work cost do not increase done work completed to do assigned of period one quarter up to the period more to be done happened office Chief . 
	   ☎ 	( b) ☎ 	work cost do not increase done work completed to do assigned of period half period until more to be done happened Departmental chief or Neither the director nor the regional director.
	   ❖ 	( c) 	If the managing director has to add up to a period equal to the specified period to complete the work so as not to increase the cost of the work more than mentioned in clause (b).
	    ❖ 	( d) 	In cases other than those mentioned in clauses (a) , ( b) and (c) and if the period of more than six months is to be extended, the committee.
  ☎ ( 3) If due to the delay of 	the supplier , builder , consultant or service provider, the work of the purchase agreement cannot be completed within the period specified in the purchase agreement, the supplier , builder , consultant or service provider cannot bring the unfinished work or service into operation out of the purchase amount agreed at the beginning. The authority approving the bid may extend the deadline according to sub-regulation (2) by taking damages up to ten percent of the purchase price at the rate of 0.5 percent per week of the equipment or service equivalent amount. When extending the deadline in such a way, the supplier , builder , consultant or service provider must also clearly disclose the fact that the supplier , builder , consultant or service provider cannot claim additional financial expenses.
			However , in relation to any work, if it is necessary to impose a different type of compensation than the amount of compensation mentioned in this by-law, it can be done with the approval of the committee.
  ☑ 	( 4) 	When extending the deadline as per clause (d) of sub-regulation (2), an investigation shall be conducted by the authorized employees of the relevant project , administration and finance departments.
❖ 48. Termination of purchase agreement and remedy thereof: ❖ ☑
	( 1) 	The conditions under which the contract can be terminated must be disclosed in the purchase agreement.
	( 2) 	The conditions according to sub-regulation (1) may be as follows:
		( a) If 	the supplier , consultant , service provider or builder does not perform the work according to the purchase agreement, the company may terminate the purchase agreement .
		( b) 	The situation where the company can terminate the purchase agreement (termination y convenience) on the basis of convenience for public interest ,
		( c) the circumstances in which 	the supplier , consultant , service provider or builder may terminate the purchase agreement , and
		( d) 	A situation where the purchase contract can be terminated in circumstances beyond control.
	( 3) 	When terminating the purchase agreement in accordance with sub-regulation (1) in the purchase agreement, the arrangements related to financial adjustment and compensation shall be mentioned along with the following matters:
		( a) 	the payment, if any, of any outstanding payment due in respect of work , supply or service which has been acceptably completed ;
		( b) Due to the failure 	of the supplier , consultant , service provider or construction contractor to perform the work as per the purchase agreement, the company shall be liable for the additional expenses incurred in carrying out the said work .
		( c) 	The amount of actual damages suffered by the company due to the termination of the purchase agreement without any fault (default) of the supplier or consultant or service provider or builder.
	( 4) 	Except as otherwise provided in the purchase agreement, the company may terminate the purchase agreement based on convenience for the public interest.
	( 5) 	Upon termination of the purchase agreement as per sub-regulation (4), the company shall pay the amount for the following works completed before the termination of the agreement:
		( a) 	Where there is provision for payment of any expenses as research fees, such expenses actually incurred ,
		( b) 	the value of goods specially made for the Company under the Purchase Agreement ,
		( c) 	the loss of profit and the expenses incurred in terminating the purchase agreement other than the amount referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (3) , and
		( d) 	Other expenses incurred
 
❖ 49. 	................................................ ...........................
50. 	Payment to builders and suppliers:
	The contractor or supplier should be paid for the work of the purchase agreement as follows: ★
 ❖ 	( 1) ❖ 	Supplier or Construction Businessmen completed done of work manner of the past Bill submission after doing Nijle done of work Quality and quantity ok happened Not having Concerned staff should check. For properly submitting the bill, as mentioned in the contract, and in other cases, payment must be made within thirty days after completing the necessary documents and submitting them to the office. If the payment cannot be made within the mentioned time, the reason should be given to one level above. If an officer above one level does not see reason for non-payment, he can take necessary departmental action against such an employee.
  ★ 	( 2) 	The payment to the builder should be made only after deducting five percent of the amount to be paid as retention money. As per the terms of the purchase agreement, the amount deducted and the amount held as security when the bid is accepted should be returned within three months to one year after the completion of the work and the payment of the final bill, or after the end of the maintenance period or after the fulfillment of the terms of the contract.
	( 3) 	Payment of goods , services , house rent and repair purchase agreement shall be made according to the terms of the agreement.
	( 4) 	According to this regulation, when paying the running bill or the payment according to the contract or the amount of the final bill, the payment should be made only after deducting advance income tax according to the prevailing law. The deducted amount should be paid to the relevant tax office and also reported to the builder.
51. 	Keeping records of completed construction and connection work:
	According to Regulation 45, after the approval of the work completion report, the related office shall keep the record of completed construction and connection work. Also, one copy should be sent to the taluk office and the central office.
❖ 52. ❖ ................................................ ................................

 
Paragraph-7
Bid evaluation
❖ 53. Evaluation Committee: ❖
	( 1) To test and evaluate 	pre-qualification proposals , bids , letters of intent for consulting services or proposals or sealed bids , an evaluation committee should be formed, consisting of technicians of related subjects , representatives of accountants , and representatives of related departments or offices.
	( 2) 	The evaluation committee according to sub-regulation (1) may invite the relevant experts or employees to the meeting of the committee according to the nature of the work and the needs of the head of the office.
	( 3) 	If the committee as per sub-regulation (1) needs the assistance of a consultant, the company, subject to the approved program and budget, shall adopt the procedure of this regulation to appoint a consultant.
can
	( 4) 	The evaluation committee according to sub-regulation (1) may form a sub-committee to assist it in evaluating the seal rate quotation , proposal for pre-qualification, letter of intent for consulting services .
	( 5) 	Minutes of the meeting of the evaluation committee should be prepared and a file of all the topics discussed in the committee should be kept.
	( 6) The evaluation committee 	may determine other procedures of the meeting by itself .
	( 7) 	The evaluation committee shall submit the evaluation report to the authorized officer.
 
❖ 54. Bid evaluation : ❖
	( 1) 	Apart from the bids that are not actionable according to Regulation 39, other bids that have been filed should be included for evaluation.
	( 2) 	In order not to reject the bid, if any minor differences are found in the technical specifications , details , features, etc., as far as possible, the value thereof shall be included in the evaluation of the bid as per sub-regulation (1).
	( 3) 	If the value of minor difference as per sub-regulation (2) is more than fifteen percent of the bidder's bid number, such bid shall be deemed to be essentially ineffective and such bid shall not be included in the evaluation.
		Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation, “ minor difference " This means differences that are not materially different from the technical specifications , details, etc. mentioned in the tender documents .
	( 4) 	In the event that bids are invited after determining pre-qualification, bids received from bidders other than pre-qualified bidders will not be included in the evaluation as per sub-regulation (1).
	( 5) 	The evaluation of the bids shall be done according to the basis and method mentioned in the documents related to the bids, and in the course of such evaluation, the evaluated amount of each bid shall be compared with the evaluated amount of other bids, and the bid that will receive the minimum bid number shall be determined.
	( 6) 	In accordance with sub-regulation (5), the qualifications of the bidders of the tenders accepting the minimum bid points should be checked whether they are in accordance with the basis of qualification evaluation mentioned in the documents related to the tender.
	( 7) 	In accordance with sub-regulation (5), when checking the eligibility of the bidder for the bid accepting the minimum bid score, if it is found to be in accordance with the basis of the qualification evaluation mentioned in the documents related to the bid, such bid shall be considered as the effective bid in the form of minimum evaluation. If it is found that the qualification of the bidder is not in accordance with the basis of evaluation mentioned in the document related to the bid, his bid shall be removed from the evaluation and the qualification of the bidder who accepts the next minimum bid score shall be checked on the same basis.
	( 8) 	The evaluation committee shall prepare and submit an evaluation report in accordance with sub-regulation (7) in such a way as to reveal the basis and manner of evaluation of the tenders with minimum evaluation.
	( 9) 	While evaluating the bid, the technical , commercial and financial aspects of the bid should be evaluated.
	( 10) 	Bids with minor differences acceptable to the company which do not have a material difference and serious impact on the area , quality , feature , condition , performance or any other requirements mentioned in the bid documents shall be considered as substantively responsive bids and no impact on the cost while evaluating such bids. If there is, the value of such influence shall be maintained on the same basis and adjusted to the accepted number of the bid and the estimated amount of the bid shall be calculated.
	( 11) 	Sub-regulation (10) and Regulation 54A. , 54kh. and 54g. The estimated amount of bids drawn as per the above shall be used only for the purpose of comparing the bids and shall not be included in the price of the purchase agreement.
	( 12) 	If there is a difference between the price of the original and the photocopy of the bid or any other matter, the price or matter mentioned in the original will be valid.
	( 13) 	While determining the value of the minor difference as per sub-regulation (10), the evaluation committee shall maintain it on the basis of the estimated cost of the related work or prevailing market price or interest rate. In the event that such cost estimate , prevailing market price or interest rate is not fixed, it shall be maintained on the basis of the average of the price mentioned in the other essentially effective bid of the same item.
❖ 54. A. Evaluation of the technical aspect of the tender:
	( 1) 	When evaluating the technical aspect of the bid including evaluation, the following points should be evaluated:
		( a) in the field of 	supply of goods , construction works or other services ,
		( b) technical specifications and operating and performance (operating and 	performance ) characteristics of the main goods , works or other services , and
		( c) 	Period of warranty.
	( 2) 	During the evaluation according to sub-regulation (1), if there is any difference between the things mentioned in the documents related to the bid and the things mentioned by the bidder in the bid, the evaluation committee should also mention the difference.
	( 3) 	The price of the difference as per sub-regulation (2) shall be calculated and maintained in accordance with the basis and method mentioned in the tender documents.
❖ 54.B. Evaluation of commercial aspect of the bid : ❖
	( 1) 	After evaluating the technical aspect of the bid, the evaluation committee shall evaluate the following points while evaluating the commercial aspect of such bid:
		( a) the period for supply or completion 	of goods , works or other services ,
		( b) 	terms of payment ,
		( c) 	Default compensation to be paid by the bidder for failure to complete the work on time ,
		( d) 	Obligations of the Bidder in relation to guarantee ,
		( e) 	Obligations to be fulfilled by the bidder ,
		( f) 	If the bidder has added any other condition to the proposed purchase agreement, such condition.
	( 2) 	During the evaluation according to sub-regulation (1), if there is any difference between the things mentioned in the documents related to the bid and the things mentioned by the bidder in the bid, the evaluation committee shall also mention the difference.
	( 3) 	The evaluation committee, while maintaining the value of the difference according to sub-regulation (2), shall calculate and maintain it according to the basis and method mentioned in the documents related to the bid.
❖ 54. C. Evaluation of the economic aspect of the bid : ❖
	( 1) 	After evaluating the technical and commercial aspect of the bid, the financial aspect of such bid should be evaluated.
	( 2) 	When evaluating the economic side according to sub-regulation (1), the price of the technical and commercial aspects of the necessary items and, as necessary, including the following items, shall be fixed according to the basis and method mentioned in the bidding documents, and the evaluated amount of the bid shall be fixed:
		( a) 	Inland transport charges ,
		( b) 	Technical features.
	( 3) When evaluating the technical characteristics according to clause (b) of sub-regulation (2), if the bid is submitted with a rate 	, capacity or return higher than the minimum rate , capacity or return (output) mentioned in the bid document, the evaluation committee shall Just have to evaluate.
	( 4) 	In the documents related to the bid, it is mentioned that domestic goods and local builders will be given priority, the economic aspect evaluation committee of the bid shall calculate the amount of priority given to the domestic goods or construction business and establish a double evaluation score for that amount in the foreign bidder's winning score.
	( 5) 	The evaluation committee should not consider the spare parts recommended by the bidder while evaluating the bid.
❖ 54.d. Special evaluation of construction bids : ❖
	( 1) 	While evaluating the bids for the construction work, the evaluation committee shall evaluate the following things in addition to the things mentioned in the regulations 54A , 54B and 54C:
		( a) whether or not 	the work plan , work execution schedule and operating time of the construction work are as mentioned in the tender documents ,
		( b) 	whether the per unit rate mentioned by the bidder for the item attached in the Bill of Quantity is reliable or not ;
		( c) 	Whether or not the balance sheet is unbalanced due to the following:
			( a) 	because the tenderer has quoted an abnormally high rate for the item of work to be done at the initial stage of the procurement contract , or
			( b) 	Because the bidder has quoted an abnormally high rate for an item in the bill of quantities which he believes to be a low estimate.
	( 2) 	In the case as per clause (c) of sub-regulation (1) or the tenderer is unable to complete the work satisfactorily, the bidder mentions a low acceptance rate, or the field of construction or the technical specification is wrongly understood, or an abnormally low acceptance rate is given at the initial stage. The assessment committee will have to check whether there is more rate mentioned for the construction work (front loading). In the case of such a low bid score, the evaluation committee shall request an explanation from the bidder including rate analysis.
	( 3) 	If the explanation requested by the evaluation committee according to sub-regulation (2) is satisfactory, it may recommend to the office to accept the bid by taking an additional performance bond equal to ten percent of the bid score from such bidder and if such explanation is not satisfactory, it may recommend to the office to reject such bid.
	( 4) 	The additional performance bond taken in accordance with sub-regulation (3) shall be returned after the final bill is paid.
❖ 54g. Report to be submitted: ❖ 
	The evaluation committee shall prepare a detailed analysis of the tests and evaluations conducted in accordance with this regulation and report the following points and submit it to the office within one month from the date of commencement of the evaluation work:
	( a) 	name and address of the bidder ,
	( b) 	the total bid amount and currency of the bidders ,
	( c) 	Regulation 36A. If the error has been corrected according to sub-regulations (8) and (9) of the total amount and currency of such error correction ,
	( d) 	If it is mentioned in the promissory note that the bidder has proposed to give any discount, that the evaluation committee has adjusted the amount proposed to give such discount ,
	( e) 	According to clause (f) of sub-regulation (1A) of Regulation 35, the amount fixed on the basis of the currency used to compare the bids and the exchange rate on the said date ,
	( f) 	Regulation 36A. The grounds found during examination in accordance with sub-regulations (2) , ( 3) , ( 4) and (6) ,
	( g) 	Basis and manner of evaluation of minimum evaluated essentially effective bids as per sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 54.
☑ 55. ❖ ☑ 	office for the house land and equipment rent to take :
	( 1) 	When renting a house and warehouse required by the company, the managing director or the officer designated by him may rent the house as follows, within the scope of the budget.
		❖ ( a) 	Annual Rs. A house with a rent of up to 50,000 can be purchased directly from the owner of the warehouse .
		❖ ( b) 	Annual Rs. More than fifty thousand Rs. A house with a rent of up to two lakhs can be taken by purchase at the price recommended by the Godown Rent Committee .
		❖ ( c) 	Annual Rs. Houses and warehouses with a rent of more than two lakhs can be opened and taken at the price recommended by the Rent Committee after publishing a public notice for at least 15 days.
	( 2) 	According to sub-regulation (1), the name of the house owner of the rented house and warehouses and the current number paid by the company should be opened and sent to the relevant tax office.
  ★ 	( 3) ★ 	Company New the house warehouse rent while taking or the house of the warehouse rent addition while Central and local level the following according to Rant Committee recommendation done based on will be done .  ❖
		( a) 	Central Level Committee (Within Valley)
		 ☎☎ 	1. The concerned Deputy Managing Director or Director 	– Chairman
				2. Representative , Civil Department		 		 		– Member
				3. Representative , Law Branch			  				– Member
				4. Head of concerned office		 		 		– Member
				5. Representative , Accounts				 		– Member Secretary
		( b) 	Local Level Committee (Outside the Valley)
				1. Regional Director 							– Chairman
				2. Head of concerned office 					– Member
				3. Representative , Civil Branch 					– Member
				4. Head of Accounts of concerned office 			– Member Secretary
	( 4) 	In order to connect the base station necessary to provide the service of wireless technology, the real estate selected as suitable from the technical point of view can be acquired by negotiation with the real estate owner.
  ❖ 	( 5) ❖ 	This In the regulations elsewhere whatever things Mention happened However the house rent to take curtain price accretion taxes Registration Evidence the letter received did not It can also be purchased from individuals , firms , organizations or companies.
  ☑ 	( 6) ☑ 	Company Telecommunication service provide to do for In Nepal working Telecommunication service provider of companies physical infrastructure and structure Like : House , Tower , V.T.S. , power and other equipment and also for their security, can be used jointly with each other at a rate decided on the basis of mutual agreement.
  ☑ ( 7) 	BTS required to provide wireless technology services. If the tower , equipment , air-conditioner , generator , electricity , security, etc. connected to the building and the building are to be leased, at least 15 days public notice shall be given and technical and financial proposal from the interested organization registered with the relevant body of the Nepal Government to be leased shall be requested from the following committee. Based on the recommendation of the committee as per sub-regulation (1) of regulation 35, purchase can be made after taking the recommendation including evaluation of the market value:
		( a) Head of concerned Department or Directorate 		– Coordinator
		( b) Expert in related subject 						– member
		( c) Head of Accounts of concerned Department or Directorate 		– Member
❖ 55a. Conduct of officials involved in the procurement of the company : ❖
	in formulating the company's procurement plan , conducting procurement operations , executing procurement contracts or performing other tasks related to procurement shall follow the following conduct:
	( 1) 	To fulfill their duties in a fair manner so that there is a fair competition of the bidders in the procurement process ,
	( 2) 	conduct the procurement process in a way that is beneficial to the company ,
	( 3) 	Not to act against self-interest through his work or conduct or behavior in connection with the purchase ,
	( 4) 	To keep confidential all other information including information related to the property of the bidder that comes to our knowledge in connection with the procurement process ,
	( 5) 	Not to work in any other private organization of a similar nature to any person , firm , organization , company and any other private organization of a similar nature for two years after his/her retirement from the post .
	( 6) If it is known that 	your close relatives have participated as bidders or proposers in the procurement process in which you are involved, you should immediately inform the officer one level above you and withdraw 	from such procurement process .
		Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, his relative means the husband , wife , father , mother , son , daughter , mother-in-law, father -in-law, brother , brother , sister , sister , son -in-law , brother - in- law , sister - in - law or cousin.
	( 7) 	Not to act contrary to prevailing laws while conducting procurement related activities ,
	( 8) 	Not to engage in corrupt or fraudulent activities or engage in such activities ,
	( 9) 	Do not engage in collusion or collusion before or after submission of bids or proposals with the intention of depriving them of the benefits of competition.
❖ 55b. Conduct of bidders or proposers : ❖
	( 1) 	The bidder or the proposer shall comply with the corresponding obligations if mentioned in these regulations , purchase agreement and other documents related to purchase.
	( 2) 	Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the bidder or proposer shall not do or cause the following acts with the intention of influencing the procurement process or the execution of the procurement contract:
		( a) 	to give or offer improper inducements, directly or indirectly ;
		( b) 	to misrepresent or misrepresent facts ,
		( c) 	to commit corrupt or fraudulent acts or to engage in such acts ,
		( d) 	to interfere with the participation of other competing bidders or proposers who are involved in any way in the bidding or proposal related proceedings ,
		( e) 	Directly or indirectly threatening to harm the life or property of any person involved in the procurement process or to commit acts of extortion ,
		( f) 	to engage in collusion or collusion before or after the submission of tenders or proposals with the intention of disrupting the procurement process between bidders or proposers or fixing the price of bids or proposals in an artificial or uncompetitive manner or otherwise depriving the Company of the benefit of open and free competition; ,
		( g) 	To contact the company or any agency of the company for the purpose of influencing the bid or proposal or to act in any way to influence the examination and evaluation of the bid or the evaluation of the proposal during the period from the time the bid or proposal is opened until the notice of acceptance of the bid or proposal is given.
	( 3) 	The bidder who has the responsibility of preparing documents or specifications related to the bidding of any procurement work or monitoring the execution of the procurement or any person or firm or institution or company affiliated with him or the employee working in such firm or organization or company may participate in the proceedings related to the bidding of such procurement. no
			However, this provision will not be applicable in case of a turnkey purchase agreement or a purchase agreement for both design and construction.
❖ 55c. Blacklisting and release: ❖
	( 1) 	In the following cases, the committee shall send a recommendation to the Public Procurement Monitoring Office to blacklist the bidder , proposer , consultant , service provider , supplier , construction professional or other person , firm , organization or company based on the seriousness of their actions:
		( a) 	Regulation 55b. If it is proven that he has acted contrary to the conduct ,
		( b) 	If the proposer of the proposal selected for acceptance fails to enter into an agreement in accordance with Regulation 40 ,
		( c) 	If it is later proved that a fundamental error has been committed during the execution of the purchase agreement, or that the obligations in accordance with the agreement have not been substantially complied with, or that the work as per the purchase agreement is not of the quality as per the agreement ,
		( d) 	if convicted by a court of any criminal offense disqualifying him from participating in the procurement contract ,
		( e) 	If it is proved that the contract of sale has been entered into under false pretenses , or
		( f) 	In any other case, it shall be as prescribed by the committee.
	( 2) Bidders 	, proposers , consultants , service providers , suppliers , construction professionals or other persons , firms , organizations or companies placed in the black list based on the recommendation as per sub-regulation (1) will not be able to participate in the procurement process of the company for the same period.
	( 3) Bidders 	, proposers , consultants , service providers , suppliers , construction professionals or other persons , firms , organizations or companies recommended to be blacklisted in accordance with sub-regulation (1) but the decision to blacklist them in accordance with sub-regulation (2) has not been made. will not be able to participate.
	( 4) Bidders 	, proposers , consultants , service providers , suppliers , construction professionals or other persons , firms , institutions or companies who have been blacklisted by the Public Procurement Monitoring Office based on the recommendations of other public bodies will not be able to participate in the procurement process of the company during the period of the blacklist.
	( 5) 	Notwithstanding anything written elsewhere in this regulation, a person , firm , institution or company blacklisted by the authorized body in accordance with the prevailing law without paying the debt of the bank or financial institution shall not be allowed to participate in the purchase process of the company during the period of such blacklisting.
	( 6) 	According to sub-regulations (2) , ( 3) , ( 4) or (5), if a person , firm , institution or company who is unable to participate in the procurement process of the company is found to have participated in the procurement process, no action will be taken on his bid or proposal.
❖ 55h. Provisions related to purchasing in special circumstances: ❖
	( 1) 	Notwithstanding anything written elsewhere in this regulation, if special circumstances arise and if the company does not purchase immediately, the company may make or arrange for immediate purchase.
  ☎ ( 2) 	The Managing Director shall submit the detailed information regarding the situation as per sub-regulation (1) and the purchase to be made immediately in the following meeting of the committee. ☎ 
	( 3) 	When purchasing in accordance with this regulation, the company shall prepare a written description of the purchase requirement , quality , quantity , condition and period of completion of the work and compete as much as possible for the quantity and duration required to face the emergency situation or only one builder , supplier , consultant . Or you have to negotiate with the service provider for a clean and reasonable price by taking a written price or offer.
	( 4) 	If the purchase is made in accordance with this regulation, the following should be kept in the record of the opening document:
		( a) 	Particulars relating to special circumstances ,
		( b) 	Crisis in public safety , welfare and community health if not purchased immediately ,
		( c) 	Reasons and grounds for not adopting other methods of procurement.
	( 5) 	According to this regulation, the company shall pay Rs. In case of purchase of more than 10 lakhs, a public notice of the details of such purchase should be published.
❖ 55g. Methods of communication : ❖
	( 1) 	The company shall give to the bidder or the consultant or the bidder or the consultant to the company any documents, notices, decisions or other information mentioned in these regulations, documents related to the bid, documents related to the call for proposals or the purchase agreement, except as otherwise provided in these regulations .
	( 2) 	When sending a notice in accordance with sub-regulation (1), if the address of the bidder or consultant who receives such notice is not found, or if such notice cannot be delivered for any other reason, the company shall publish a notice in a national level daily newspaper with a brief description of the subject, and upon such notice being published, such person shall It will be deemed that the notice has been duly received.
❖ 55ch. Purchase transactions may be made through electronic communication:
 	( 1) 	Notwithstanding anything else written in this regulation, the company may request proposals for pre-qualification through the electronic world , issue tender invitation notices , request letters of intent and prepare a short list , request proposals for consulting services , send tenders or pre-qualification documents. , can make arrangements to receive bids , pre-qualification or consulting service proposals , enter into purchase agreements , make payments and give or receive other information.
	( 2) 	When using the means of communication according to sub-regulation (1), the following should be used:
		( a) 	in such a way that the record of the subject matter of the communication in such communication medium is legally valid and protected ,
		( b) 	in such a way that the security of such means of communication is adequate ,
		( c) 	access of bidders to the procurement process is not unduly restricted , and
		( d) 	In a way that does not conflict with this regulation.
❖ 55 Ch. Provisions related to review of procurement proceedings or decisions: ❖
	( 1) 	Any bidder or proposer may submit an application to the Managing Director for review of such error or decision if the company has committed any error in the procurement process or decision or has not complied with the duty to comply.
	( 2) 	The petition for review given in accordance with sub-regulation (1) shall be limited to the proceedings before the purchase agreement.
	( 3) 	When submitting an application according to sub-regulation (1), the application must be submitted within seven days from the date on which the bidder or proposer learns that the company has committed errors related to the procurement process or has not complied with its duties.
	( 4) 	In the application according to sub-regulation (1), it must be clearly disclosed that the company did or did not perform such an error or did not comply with the duty and that such decision is contrary to this regulation.
	( 5) 	No action shall be taken on the request for review received after the period as per sub-regulation (3).
	( 6) 	If any error is found in the procurement process during the investigation regarding the application received according to sub-regulation (1) , if the company does not comply with the duty to be followed or if such decision is found to be against the law, the managing director shall suspend the procurement process and make a written decision stating the reason within five days of receiving the application. will fall
	( 7) 	In the decision according to sub-regulation (6), it should also be mentioned how to proceed with the procurement process.
❖ 55j. Purchase proceedings should be stopped: ❖
	( 1) 	Regulation 55C. If an application is submitted to the review committee for review in accordance with the existing law, the company is not satisfied with the request for review, until the review committee makes a decision on the request, the company shall suspend the purchase process.
	( 2) 	Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the purchase proceedings shall not be suspended in the following cases:-
		( a) 	If the company informs the review committee that it is necessary to continue the procurement process due to the important public interest inherent in the procurement process , or
		( b) 	if a decision cannot be taken by the Review Committee within the prescribed period , or
		( c) 	If the purchase agreement has been concluded.
	( 3) 	If the company does not stop the procurement process according to clauses (a) and (b) of sub-regulation (2), it shall inform the review committee.
		Clarification: “ Review committee " That is to say public Purchase Act 2063 who section 48 according to Formation having been Committee to remember belongs to . 
❖ 55 Jh. Records of procurement proceedings should be kept : ❖
	( 1) 	The company shall maintain a separate file for each purchase transaction.
	( 2) 	The company shall keep the following documents in addition to other documents in the file as per sub-regulation (1):
		( a) 	Register of contract files ,
		( b) 	notice of invitation for tender or prequalification ,
		( c) 	documents relating to tender , prequalification or invitation to offer ;
		( d) 	The request made by the bidder for clarification regarding the documents related to the bid , the documents related to the pre-qualification or the documents related to the proposal and the reply sent by the company to all the participating bidders or proposers in this regard ,
		( e) 	Minutes of the meeting held with the bidders or consultants prior to submission of bids and proof that the company has sent a copy of those minutes to all participating bidders or proposers ,
		( f) 	Minutes of opening of tenders ,
		( g) 	Original copy of the tender ,
		( h) 	Questions asked by the Bid Evaluation Committee to the Bidders or Proposers in connection with the Bid Evaluation and the replies sent to the Company by the respective Bidders or Proposers ,
		( i) 	Eligibility evaluation report of pre-qualified bidders ,
		( j) 	List of pre-qualified bidders ,
		( k) 	Minutes thereof, if held ;
		( l) 	a copy of the initial notice of acceptance sent to the successful bidder ,
		( d) 	a copy of the notice sent to unsuccessful bidders ,
		( d) 	All notices published in relation to procurement ,
		( n) 	Petitions made before the company and before the review committee and the opinions , responses and information submitted by the respective companies and the decisions made in this regard ,
		( i) 	purchase agreement ,
		( th) 	Documents relating to the execution of the purchase agreement such as progress reports , invoices and inspection reports ,
		( d) 	If the purchase agreement has been amended, the relevant documents ,
		( d) 	documents including goods receipt , inspection and approval ,
		( n) 	all correspondence with builders , suppliers , consultants or service providers ;
		( c) 	The request of the sub-contractor and the reply given by the company in that regard ,
		( f) 	Evaluation report and all related documents , and
		( b) 	Documents related to the action taken to resolve the dispute related to the purchase agreement.
	( 3) 	Records according to sub-regulation (1) shall be preserved for at least five years after the completion of procurement proceedings.
 
Paragraph-8
Powers of the Managing Director
56. 	(1) The powers of the Managing Director shall be as follows:
		( a) 	To operate the approved budget within the scope of the regulations.
		( b) 	To transfer the budget amount as specified in regulation 5.
	   ◎ 	( c) 	According to Regulation 25 at one time Rs. To order the purchase of goods up to forty crores. ◎ 
	   ◎ 	( d) 	According to Regulation 27, at one time Rs. Purchase of goods up to fifteen crores.
		( e) 	Conducting work related to transportation in accordance with Regulation 30.
	   ☎ 	( f) 	According to Regulation 31, when carrying out construction and connection related work, Rs. 30 crores worth of work. ☎ 
		( g) 	When working from deposit according to regulation 32, to work for the full amount.
	    	( h)  	Regulation 33A. For technical advice to any person or firm Rs. To be appointed with a salary of up to twenty five lakhs.
	   ☎ ( j) 	To approve the cost estimate of the construction and repair works regardless of the amount.
			But the estimated cost is Rs. If you want to construct a building worth more than five crores, you will have to get approval from the building design committee.
		( j) 	To sign on behalf of the company any contract including the purchase contract on behalf of the company .
	   ★ 	( k) 	According to Regulation 55, when renting a house and warehouse, Rs. Accepting up to twenty lakhs. ★
	   ☑ 	( T1) 	In case of sub-regulations (6) and (7) of regulation 55, to approve up to five crores. ☑
	   ★ 	( l) 	According to Regulation 59, the assessed value of goods sold by auction is Rs. To approve up to twenty four lakhs.
	   ★ 	( d) 	In case of regulation 61 sub-regulation (2) , ( 3) , ( 5) and (7) Rs. Accepting up to fifty thousand.
		( d) 	Exercising all rights in the case of sub-regulation (4) of regulation 61.
	   ★ 	( n) 	In case of sub-regulation (6) of Regulation 61, the full amount in case of erroneous bill and in case of other disputed bill, Rs. Pay up to twenty five thousand per month.
	☑ 	( i) 	In case of organizing any formal function or conference of the company, Rs. Up to two lakhs , if hospitality is required in connection with the company's work, Rs. Up to 30,000 and in case of incidental expenses, if it is necessary to spend for the benefit of the company, Rs. Spend up to twenty five thousand.
		( th) 	To pay the principal and interest of the loan amount taken according to the agreement, whatever amount is within the budget scope.
		( d) 	In the course of the company's work, if any person or property of any person is damaged and compensation has to be paid, on the recommendation of the inquiry committee, at one time Rs. Accepting up to twenty five thousand.
	   ❖ 	( d) 	Regulation 34A. When taking other services according to Rs. Making purchases up to one crore. ❖ 
	( 2) 	In case of taking action in relation to an amount exceeding the amount specified in various clauses of sub-regulation (1), the managing director may take the approval of the committee and do so in accordance with the said clauses.
  ☑ 	( 3) 	Apart from the powers specified by the Managing Director himself in this regulation, the Managing Director may delegate his authority to the employees under him according to his needs . ☑
 
Paragraph-9
various
57. 	To obtain the approval of the committee:
	The company should not do the following without the prior approval of the committee.
 	( 1) 	To purchase or acquire any immovable property worth more than one crore rupees except in the case mentioned in sub-regulation (3) of regulation 24. 
	( 2) 	to mortgage or grant any immovable property for a period exceeding ten years ,
	( 3) 	To sell or transfer any property or right or facility worth more than five lakh rupees.
	( 4) 	Borrowing , giving or guaranteeing a loan.
58. 	Accountable for not deducting advance income tax:
	When the company makes any payment, the head of accounting will be held accountable if the payment is made without determining that advance tax must be deducted according to the prevailing law.
59. 	Arrangements for auctioning and washing:
	( 1) The head of the office shall make a list of the goods 	that are old and cannot be used or are broken and useless , are not suitable to be kept in use due to the development of technology and should be washed , written down or auctioned, and the estimated amount should be kept and submitted to the authorized officer.
	( 2) 	According to sub-regulation (1), while preparing the list of goods to be washed , displaced and written off or to be auctioned, or while fixing the price of the goods, the utility , service , lifespan , depreciation , residual value and market value of the goods should also be considered.
	( 3) 	The head of the office shall form an investigation and evaluation committee at the central and regional level to examine, investigate and evaluate the goods presented as having to be replaced, washed or auctioned and recommended for auction sale or washing . In such a committee , there should be related experts , financial administration representatives , related warehouse chiefs and representatives of related offices or departments. Based on the recommendation of the said committee, the authorized officer can auction or wash it.
	( 4) 	Offices that have goods to be auctioned or washed shall arrange for auction sale or washing at least once a year.
	( 5) In 	order to auction the goods that have been decided to be auctioned, a notice should be published in a national level newspaper, giving a deadline of at least 15 days for the auction sale.
		( a) 	description of goods ,
		( b) 	minimum price of goods ,
		( c) the place 	, time and date of the auction ;
		( d) 	Starting from the lowest price ,
		( e) 	whether or not to make separate or lump sum increases ,
		( f) 	that an immediate cash deposit of five per cent of the bid price is required to be made in order to complete the auction ;
		( g) 	The period for picking up the auctioned goods ,
		( h) 	Other essential matters.
	( 6) 	Regardless of what is written in the by-laws above, if it is deemed appropriate to sell the goods by auction, the bid can be requested by giving a deadline as per by-law (5). If the tender is called in this way, the bid must be accompanied by a security equal to five percent of the bid number or in cash.
	( 7) 	If the auctioned goods are not paid the full amount within the period specified by the relevant office, the deposit may be confiscated and re-auctioned.
	( 8) 	If the minimum price is not accepted even when the auction is increased, the auction should be re-evaluated by the committee as per sub-regulation (3). If the auction cannot be increased even with the price re-evaluated in this way, auction sale or washing can be arranged through other procedures recommended by the investigation and evaluation committee.
	( 9) 	Washing of company documents: The head of the office may order to wash the documents collected and received for the company's work, as there will be no harm to the company, and as many documents as are justified to be washed after the work has been completed.
		( a) 	Documents that can be washed after one year of completion of work:
		( a) 	Daily , monthly , half yearly reports.
		( b) 	Answer book of written examination.
		( e) 	Documents related to holding meeting except minute book and proposal.
		( e) 	If there is a need to audit the employees' leave application , salary , installment plan , daily allowance , travel allowance and sending them to conference , study training, etc., after the final revision.
		( b) 	Apart from maps and design related data, any construction related plan , contract , purchase agreement, lease related document and other accounting related documents should be audited, they can be washed after three years after the completion of the work.
		( c) 	Documents to be washed after five years of completion of work:-
		( a) 	Attendance , attendance form of employees keeping record of leave ,
		( b) 	progress report of any scheme or company ,
		( e) 	Circulars , notices for general information ,
		( e) 	Confidential report of the employee , if the employee is promoted or retires from service.
( d) 	Never wash documents
		( a) 	Document with red seal or handprint of Shri 5
		( b) 	Document showing title to movable or immovable property , survey map document ,
		( e) 	seat roll of employees ,
		( e) 	Annual Report and Balance Sheet ,
		( g) 	Position details of employees ,
		( u) 	any other documents deemed appropriate by the head of the authorized station or office in a case in which the company is the plaintiff or defendant or in a case involving the company ,
		( a) 	Minutes of meetings of the Committee , and
		( Ai) 	Records related to drawing-design , software design of all types of telephone or information services operated by the company .
		( e) When documents are washed 	, such documents shall be washed in the presence of one representative of the administration , internal audit and technical department of the concerned office .
		( f) 	The documents washed according to this regulation can be sold to any organization or person designated by the company.
  ★ ( 10) 	According to sub-regulation (3), the amount received for the displaced , auctioned or washed goods should be adjusted and recorded from the property account. ★
❖ 60. Customer service terms , facilities , arrangements : ❖
	customer service conditions , facilities and quality of service, the committee will create a separate procedure and implement it.
61. 	Arrangement for giving minha:
	( 1) 	If any goods are damaged while being transported from one place to another, or if they are not received, the cost can be deducted based on the circumstances and justification.
	( 2) 	If the goods are lost or damaged on the way from abroad, or if they are not received, the amount that cannot be compensated by the insurance can be deducted based on the circumstances and justification.
	( 3) 	Any amount due from the deceased employee can be deducted from the pen.
	( 4) 	Regarding the payment of demurrage or penalty, it can be waived on the basis of reasonableness and excusable reasons.
	( 5) 	If any item is lost or broken despite taking precautions in the course of office work, it can be charged on the basis of justification. However, if any item is broken or lost due to the negligence of the employee, the relevant employee must be charged.
	( 6) 	If the company has provided services due to a faulty bill, it can be waived. If the defendant is not able to collect the charges while proceeding with the other accused, it can be dismissed on the basis of justification .
			However, if the damage is caused due to the negligence of the employee, it will not be compensated.
	( 7) 	Due to dissolution or any other reason, the entire amount of the debt that cannot be recovered from the non-existent organization will be deducted.
62. 	Vehicle logbook:
	The relevant office should keep the logbook of all the vehicles in the company.
63. 	Demand Form:
	The goods needed by the different sections of the company's office should be obtained by filling the demand form. The authority to approve such demand form will be as specified by the Head of Office.
63 A. Designation of Conjunctive:
According to this regulation, in the event that there is no coordinator in the committees , working groups and sub-committees, the person designated by the managing director or the authorized officer among the members of such committees, working groups and sub-committees should act as the coordinator5.
64. 	Other financial arrangements:
	( 1) 	The board of directors shall have the authority to make special arrangements for the benefit of the company on matters not clearly mentioned in the regulations.
	( 2) 	Matters related to other financial arrangements not included in this regulation shall be submitted to the committee and shall be done according to the decision of the committee.
	( 3) 	The committee may make accounting policies and procedures and guidelines as needed from time to time.
	( 4) 	If there is any ambiguity or any obstacle during the procurement or acquisition, it can be done in accordance with the prevailing public procurement law.
65. Cancellation and protection:
	" Nepal" adopted by the company Telecommunication offspring financial Regulations 2052 ” dismissed It is done . The work done in accordance with the Nepal Telecommunication Institute Financial Regulations 2052 shall be deemed to be in accordance with this regulation.
	❖ Conversion:
	( a) 	“ Contract ” to say of the word instead of “ Purchase amount ” said Transformation done  is . 
	( b) 	“ Contract ” to say of the word instead of “ Purchase deal " said The form has been transformed.
	( c) 	“ Contractor ” to say of the word instead of " Construction businessman " said Transformation done is . 
	( d) 	“ Goods ” to say of the word instead of " goods " said Transformation done is . 
	( e) 	“ Prequalification ” to say of the word instead of " East qualification " said Transformation done is . 

............................................... ....... ...................................
 
List of revisions

1. 		Decision No. of the Board of Directors of Nepal Telecommunication Company Limited dated 2061.7.22. 158 dated 2061.8.15 came into effect.
2. 	★ 	Director of the committee Meeting held on 10th October 2063 No. 97 decision no. Amended from 628.
3. 	❖ 	Director of the committee the date 2065 Shravan 29 on sitting the meeting no . 238 who decision no . 1234 from Revised .
4. 	◎ 	Director of the committee the date 2065 Posh 25 on sitting the meeting no . 261 who decision no . 1335 from Revised .
5. 	 	Board of Directors meeting held on 13 January 2065 no. 262 decision no. Revised from 1354.
6. 	☎ 	Director of the committee the date 2065 January 21 on sitting the meeting no . 265 who decision no . 1364 from Revised .
7. 	Managing Committee meeting held on 25th Chaitra 2065 No. 272 decision no. Revised from 1402.
8. ✆ 	Director of the committee the date 2065 Chaitra 28 on sitting the meeting no . 273 who decision no . 1406 from Revised .
9. Date of the Board of Directors meeting held on 4th June 2066 No. 276 decision no. Revised from 1432.
10. 	 	Meeting of the Board of Directors held on 25th June 2066 No. 279 decision no. Revised from 1450.
11. 	☑ 	Director of the committee the date 2066 Posh 30 on sitting the meeting no . 327 who decision no . 1604 from Revised .
